Ye Must Be Born Again

Jesus said, “Except a man be born again, he cannot see [enter] into the Kingdom of God. “ John 3:3 & 5.

When He said, “Ye must be born again” (John 3:7), He was evidently speaking of some change in our lives. Let us behold ourselves in the mirror of God’s Word and we will see a natural man. God sees us just as we see ourselves, outwardly. God also looks into our hearts. The Bible says, “As the heart is, so is the man; (Proverbs 23:7) for with the heart man believeth unto righteousness and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. And nothing unclean can enter into the Kingdom of God.” Romans 10:9-10; Eph. 5:5.

We then being born of flesh, must be born again of the Spirit of God and of water: for that which is born of flesh is flesh and that of the spirit is spirit, (John 3:6) and he that has not the Spirit of Christ is none of His. All having sinned, it would seem foolish for us to even think of being received into the Kingdom at the day of resurrection, which is sure to come, except there would be some way for us to cleanse ourselves from the uncleanness of sin. We take water and soap to wash the grease and dirt off our bodies, which are the temples of the living God, but this cannot now nor ever wash away our sins.

Now, the Lord set before us two paths to choose which one we would walk in. One is very straight and very narrow, but it is wide enough for two to walk –the Lord Jesus and you. It leads to life everlasting and few there be that find it. The other path is very broad and many walk therein. But this one leads to destruction, which is death, Matt. 7:13-14.

Friends, we cannot inherit life if we don’t come clean with God. How are we going to do this? “For God sent not His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved” John 3:17. “He that committeth sin is of the devil, for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested: that He might destroy the works of the devil” I John 3:8. There is but one way whereby we may or can be saved, that is by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, believing His words and doing them.