The Personal Testimony of Evangelist Lorne F. Fox. The dealings and leadings of the Lord in the life of your writer have been very precious and wonderful, and it is one of the greatest joys of my life to tell the sweet story of the Christ who even today has almighty power to save the soul, and heal the sick and afflicted body.

Illness began not long after my fourth birthday had passed. Trouble started with a sunstroke of a most serious nature. We were living at that time in a town located in north-central Alberta, Canada. Three doctors were available in that general section, and they were summoned as quickly as possible. All three doctors worked for several hours, and then finally told my mother and father that there was no hope...a few hours at most, and then death.

My mother would not accept that fate, and in company with my Christian father, knelt by my bed and pled with God to spare my life. Although my parents did not understand the Scriptures in their teaching concerning Divine healing, they surely knew how to pray, and in answer to their insistent cries, God answered, and I recovered somewhat. A short time later I developed severe convulsions which came as a direct result of he sunstroke. Again doctors gave me up, and yet again my mother prayed and I recovered.

During the three years that followed, I had a small measure of health, but was never very strong. About three years after the first illness, I was stricken with an almost fatal illness. For over a week I lay totally unconscious, and more than once the doctors despaired of recover. Finally the crisis passed and reason returned. This was just the beginning of a real fight that went on for four and a half years. When I began to regain a little strength from this illness, it was noticed that I would be seized with attacks of violent trembling, and then my whole body would twitch and jerk convulsively. Then too, a constant smouldering fever put in appearance and was very persistent.

## St. Vitus Dance

As soon as complete examination could be instituted, doctors discovered that an aggravated form of St. Vitus Dance had developed, and the fever was caused by a dangerous Strep infection, not just of one limb, or the throat alone, but of the entire bloodstream. I rapidly became worse, and lest this fact be omitted, I mention that for five years following I ran a constant temperature that averaged 100 degrees, for 20 out of 24 hours. The nervous system seemed to give way entirely under the ravages of St. Vitus Dance. During those five years, whenever the blood came to the surface, even though it might be a harmless little pinprick in the end of a finger, almost immediately blood poisoning would set in. When able to be up from bed a little, there was little pleasure in being around. I would be walking in a certain direction for instance, and would suddenly find myself jerked around to the opposite direction, all without any will or volition of my own.

Several operations about which I do not have space to write, were performed on my spine, without the aid of any anesthesia whatever. Due to my condition anesthetics could not be given. During those operations, I suffered such cruel pain as I hope never to experience again in my life. The operations were a failure and the shock was so great to my nervous system, that for the remaining two years of the sickness much of the time I could not feed myself. Instead of placing food in my mouth, it would be thrown every place else, and necessitated someone else feeding me. My whole body would jerk violently, even my face twisted in strange contortions.

## Condition Goes from Bad to Worse

As a result of the spinal operations, I developed periods of high fever. In the mornings the temperature would mount up to 105 degrees, and after four or five hours of extreme fever the temperature would begin to drop, and a semi-conscious coma would follow, lasting from seven to nine hours. My heart caused much trouble and pain, and an examination revealed the organ to be much enlarged. Spasms of intense pain would follow any undue excitement or moving around and on occasions pain would become so severe I would go unconscious. In the last year of my sickness my father slept with me at night, striving to hold me quiet enough to get some sleep, for left to myself, I would jerk and thrash around until 2 or 3 o’clock in the morning, before sleep would come.

## Given up by the Doctors

For over two years I had been under the care of the finest clinic in western Canada. These doctors finally had a consultation, with the unfavorable ultimatum given to my father, that I could not possibly live over two years longer, and that I was likely to die at any moment because of the Strep infection. Only two more years to live.

## We hear of the Charles S. Price Campaign in Edmonton

In that dark hour, we heard of the great revival meetings being conducted by the beloved evangelist, Dr. Charles S. Price. Dr. Price held his campaign in the great Edmonton Ice Arena, seating nearly 12,000 people and the area was packed out many times and thousands turned away entirely. Thank God for that campaign which stirred Edmonton with the greatest spiritual awakening in its history, and for Dr. Price, who was God’s messenger in bringing light and healing to our home! In those services, I learned that Jesus would still heal the sick, and though contrary to what we were taught in our home church, we chose to believe God’s Word! A few nights later I was taken to the services. ‘Twas a service specially designated as a time of prayer for hundreds of sick children and young folk . I’ll never forget that evening! The folks half dragging me and half carried me to that service...I couldn’t walk alone, and nobody could really carry me for I’d literally squirm out of their arms, so I was dragged and carried in.

## Dr. Price Prays for Me

My body was burning with fever...my heart was pounding and though much of the service, I sat trying to hold that left side to ease the pain. The left side was badly swelled that evening too. I never jerked and twisted as much in all my illness as I did that night...it was horrible.

At length, Dr. Price came and prayed over me..."My brother, in the Name of Jesus, I command these sicknesses to leave your body," prayed the evangelist, and then I followed his prayer no longer, for something strange and wonderful happened! The power of God surged through my body like a strong flowing of electricity. Back and forth the power surged, until I leaped clear of the altar bench on which I was seated...and then the MIRACLE...for as I made that leap upward, the Lord completely healed me of the St. Vitus Dance, and I fell back absolutely relaxed, every bit of trembling and jerking ceased. Suddenly I felt an ice cold wave of the power of God start at the top of my head, and passing slowly through my body, even to my feet, that the power of God purged and cleansed away every trace of the Streptococcic infection and fever!

## The Hands of the Lord Jesus!

Most sacred of all was the healing of my heart. I humbly ask my readers to believe this account; before God it is true. As I sat with my eyes closed and enjoyed the peace and quiet, I suddenly felt two hands placed over my left side completely covering my heart. Thinking some kind friend had returned to pray over me I opened my eyes to see who had placed their hands on my side...and I speak the truth when I write this fact. When I opened my eyes to see who was there...I could see no one. Yet I felt both hands, even to the outline of every finger. I am certain that those hands were the hands of the Lord Jesus. The thrill of the moment is beyond expressing. Those hands quite suddenly pressed a crushing weight upon that heart, and I felt my heart crushed to its normal size. Those hands lingered a moment afterward in tender touch and blessing, and then were lifted. My friend, I know I felt the touch of the hands of the Healer Divine, and praise God one of these days when Jesus comes, I know that I will see Him, and behold those precious hands that brought new life to me. My pulse dropped instantly from upwards to 125 beats per minute down to the normal rate of 75 beats per minute. I was healed.

## Deliverance Complete – Walked a Half Mile That Night

That night I went home on the street car. No more being bundled up and taken around by a kind and loving friend. The street car was so packed that I had to stand up for almost an hour. The enthusiastic crowds in the street car were singing, "I am living on the mountain, underneath the cloudless sky," and those words certainly expressed the sentiment in my heart that evening. After leaving the street car, it was necessary to walk a half a mile to our home. I walked that half mile without difficulty, never stopped to rest and no one had to steady me. I slept peacefully all night...the first night of real rest in years. The darkness was passed, and into our home, long filled with pain and suffering came health and happiness. My father, who spent all of $10,000 on doctors, medicines, operations and hospitals for my sister and me, was suddenly aware of the fact that his burdens had rolled away.

Almost immediately we went from Edmonton, Alberta, to Vancouver, British Columbia and two years later we were visiting Edmonton again. While in Edmonton, I went to see our family doctor of that splendid clinic and after a talk and examination, no trace could be found of those diseases. Examination since have proven me to be entirely free from these afflictions.

Today I am rejoicing more than ever before in the Savior’s healing power.

As a teenager it was my privilege to hear Evangelist Lorne F. Fox give his testimony of healing in our home church in Miami, Florida. Then again during Thanksgiving week in 1966, my wife and I attended a week long campaign conducted by the "Fox Evangelistic Party" in Springfield, Missouri. We visited with Brother Fox one evening after service and found him to be very friendly in nature and encouraging in his words to a young ministerial student. He explained to us how the Lord gave him this anointed ministry of signs, wonders and miracles. He said that the ministry that he had came through the laying on of hands by Dr. Charles S. Price very shortly before Dr. Price’s death in 1947.

Pastor Charles A. Jennings

>"...I am the Lord that healeth thee" Exodus 15:26

>"Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever." Hebrews 13:8

>"Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed" Isaiah 53:4-5 