After many years of serious and prayerful contemplation concerning the Anglo-Israel truth, it is very evident to me that its profound and positive influence upon all mankind would be immeasurable if it had been taught as part of traditional Biblical theology. The declaration of the various forms of the ‘gospel’ message disseminated whole wide for the last 250 years by the modern church has resulted in bitter sweet consequences. Among the sweet results as been the genuine spiritual conversion to Christ of multiplied thousands of people both within the Covenant nations and throughout the world. Local churches have been established with caring pastors and congregations who have reached out and ministered to their communities. But it is the bitter results that have been reaped due to the perversion of the true Gospel message. The message of the Bible has been used to justify every evil imagination of ungodly men from the religion of humanism to the extremes of moral degeneracy. Educated and degreed ‘men of the cloth’ in high places of religious authority have placed their approval on and even been involved in such deviant causes as moral relativism, pantheism, racial, political and cultural revolutions.

>“Let our statesmen, our clergy and ministers take hold of British Israel truth. We shall then see how it will sweep over our land and over our empire and what a transformation of our race will follow! It embraces all prophecy, all history and affects all mankind.”

## HERBERT GARRISON

It is high time that the church at large throughout the western world take a very serious look at the social, political, religious and cultural consequences due to the roots of wrong theology. Wrong prophetic theology has influenced the leaders and a large portion of the populace of the Covenant Nations to support and help finance the antichrist state which clearly rejects the divinity of Jesus Christ and His work of redemption. This is a blatant indication of the teaching of ‘another gospel.’ In spite of an army of foreign missionaries, millions of dollars, evangelistic campaigns at home and abroad, seminaries, Bible colleges, a plethora of churches and pastors, our world is still suffering from spiritual ignorance, social unrest and political instability.

What could be wrong? Could the ‘gospel’ that is preached not be the true Gospel or is there a truth within the pages of Holy Writ that most ministers have never discovered? It is quite evident in these modern times that one major aspect of God’s Word that is totally ignored is the Gospel of the Kingdom. Our Lord, Himself, said that “this gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached” (Matt. 24:14), yet it would be shocking to know the vast number of ministers who have no idea that the Gospel of the Kingdom involves the restoration of God’s earthly Kingdom. Both John the Baptist and Jesus Himself preached, “Repent, for the Kingdom of Heaven [Israel] is at hand,” Matt. 3:2; 4:17) or is now being restored. The mission of the Body of Christ (the true church) in the earth was and is to be the instrument whereby the Kingdom of God is restored within the Covenant nations and the establishment of righteousness throughout the world.

The Gospel of the Kingdom with the knowledge of who God’s true Covenant people Israel are, when proclaimed within the full counsel of God’s Word, would bring a tranquil condition to our world that has never yet been known. The lack of proper understanding and/or misconstrued ideas about this truth have led many Bible students to oppose it, yet the dire need of this truth at this late date in history is more urgent than ever.

The songwriter, H. Ernest Nichol expressed the desire of every believer in the Gospel of the Kingdom when he penned the following words.

>“We’ve a story to tell to the nations, That shall turn their hearts to the right, A story of truth and mercy, A story of peace and light.

>“For the darkness shall turn to dawning, And the dawning to noonday bright. And Christ’s great Kingdom shall come on earth, The Kingdom of love and light.”

In the earthly ministry of our Lord, He referred many times to “The Kingdom of Heaven.” This descriptive title is synonymous with the Kingdom of Israel as established in the Old Testament under the terms of the old Covenant. It is also referred to by the title, “the Kingdom of God” which denotes its origin and ownership as being God Himself. The Biblical message of the Kingdom of God and its restoration under the Messiah incorporates the full body of Scriptural truth. The following is a partial list of different aspects of Bible principles only addressed, explained and understood in the context of the Kingdom of God. These principles can never be adequately addressed and understood under the limited doctrine of “the Church” (ecclesiology). The reasons why the people of the Covenant nations and others throughout the world need to hear the Gospel of the Kingdom is because:

1. It is the only Biblical message that properly incorporates all five aspects of God’s Kingdom which are: People, land, law, throne and king.

>A. PEOPLE - The people of God’s Old Testament Kingdom were the Israelites of the seed of Abraham. Modern theology either denies the literal existence of the descendants of ancient Israel or wrongly identifies them as being found only in the ‘Jewish’ people. The Apostle Paul clearly stated during the New Covenant era that “God hath not cast away His people [Israel] which He foreknew’ (Romans 11:1-2). Both the prophet Jeremiah and the writer of Hebrews makes it very clear that the Christian Covenant ratified by Jesus Christ Himself would be made “with the House of Israel and the House of Judah” Jer. 31:31-34.
>B. LAND - Geographical land mass is an imperative part of any kingdom, whether it be God’s literal kingdom or a secular kingdom. In the Old Testament, God promised the land of Canaan as a possession to the seed of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. This promise was fulfilled under the leadership of Joshua in the conquest of the Promised Land. Approximately 450 years later, the Lord gave a promise to King David through the prophet Nathan that He would give an additional land to His people which would be their final and permanent home. “Moreover I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as beforetime” (II Sam. 7:10). It is very obvious that the new home for God’s people Israel is Northwest Europe, the British Isles, North America and other places where they have settled.
>C. LAW - Most of modern liberal and evangelical theology is totally antinomian in its approach, thereby doing away with the God-given standard wherewith to govern society. The Pauline Epistles are quite emphatic that the laws of ordinances and ceremonies were fulfilled in the person and work of Jesus Christ. The moral laws and the statutes governing human relations must remain valid, otherwise a lawless society results. The Anglo-Israel position is the only Christian prophetic message that allows God’s law, the prophets and the Apostles to dictate both the personal and national standards whereby we should live. God’s law is both our inward light and our outward guardian.
>D. THRONE - In order to avoid a chaotic society and maintain a stable Christian culture, there must exist a supreme seat of civil and religious authority. The source of all just and equitable law proceeds from the divine throne of God Himself. If God’s law is not given supremacy with a proper recognition of its source as coming from the highest seat of authority in the universe, then man-centered humanism will take its place.
>E. KING - It is absolutely imperative that we as Christians recognize the High Priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ in His redemptive work of salvation. It is also important that we recognize that our Lord fills the office of Prophet as He Himself is the Word of God made flesh. It is equally imperative that Christians recognize the rightful position of Jesus Christ as the King over His Kingdom. As the final authority over all things both civil and religious, Jesus Christ is both the head of the church and king over the state. In the Anglo-Israel theology, our victorious Lord is properly recognized as Prophet, Priest and King.

2. The tenets of faith incorporating the Anglo-Israel message is compatible with the whole Scriptural context of Christian doctrine. This would include the Biblical studies of theology, soteriology, pneumatology, anthropology and eschatology.

3. The overall message and spirit of its facts and focus supports and gives credence to the Providential worldview of history. It is counter to the liberal idea of the self-determination of man and other forms of humanism.

4. The Gospel of the Kingdom incorporating the Anglo-Israel message fits hand in glove and explains Western Protestant Christianity and God’s progressive revelation of truth to man. This progression began during the days of the Apostles when the Gospel message came westward and was established in the Britannic Isles by Divine Providence. The revelation of truth continued through and even beyond the Protestant Reformation. This determined the course and direction of western civilization for several hundred years.

5. This truth puts into proper context the origin and descent of western European man. It explains the spiritual, technological, intellectual and cultural sudden rise of Western Civilization. In addition, it gives significant meaning to the timing in history and purpose of the preeminence of Western Civilization.

6. This is the only Biblical prophetic prospective that proves divine providential control in the history of man. Without the Anglo-Israel understanding and the Gospel of the Kingdom, scholars only relate what has transpired, but cannot explain the divine reason of why certain historical events have transpired.

7. This Biblical perspective gives the reason why the British Empire and the United States have been the recipients of both spiritual and material blessings above all other nations in the history of mankind. The birthright blessings bestowed upon the two sons of the patriarch Joseph found in Genesis 48:8-22; 49:13-17; Deut. 33:13-17, fully explains the divine favor that has been shown to these two nations.

8. This Gospel of the Kingdom message properly blends the theologies of both the Old and New Testaments together. It makes plain the New Testament fulfillment of many Old Testament prophecies that otherwise have little or misapplied meaning such as Jeremiah 31:31-34 and Heb. 8:7-13

9. The division of the Old Testament Kingdom of Israel into the two separate nations and their respective prophetic role and destiny is only understood in the light of Kingdom truth. The words of the post-exilic prophet Zechariah concerning Beauty and Bands is clarified only in the understanding of the two houses of Israel and Judah (Zech. 11:7-14).

10. God’s promise of the perpetuity of Israel as a national entity is clearly seen in fulfillment within the Anglo-Israel perspective. The immutable promise through the prophet Jeremiah was that the existence of God’s people Israel was as sure as the solar system (Jer. 31:35-37, 33:23-26). Daniel prophesied that “The God of heaven (would) set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed” (Daniel 2:44-45).

11. As a companion promise, God gave the guarantee that the earthly throne of David would always exist. Again through Jeremiah, the promise is given concerning the perpetuity of the Davidic covenant to be as sure as the solar system itself (Jer. 33:17-22). The Psalmist clearly states in quoting God Himself as saying, “I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant, Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations, Selah. Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth. My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him. His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven. If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments; If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments; Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail. My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips. Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David. His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me. It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven. Selah” (Psa. 89:3-4, 27-37). The Lord Himself gave seven visible witnesses as confirmation concerning the perpetuity of both Israel and the Davidic covenant. They are; heaven, earth, day, night, sun, moon, and stars as listed in the above Scriptural references.

12. The Gospel of the Kingdom incorporating the Anglo-Israel message clearly explains the prophecy of the re-uniting of the two houses of Israel and Judah. The prophet Ezekiel’s message of the two sticks, representing Israel and Judah, becoming one in the hand of the Shepherd, is only fulfilled under the terms of the New Covenant (Ez. 37:15-28). This re-uniting began to take place only after the Good Shepherd, the Lord Jesus ratified the New Covenant by the sacrificial shedding of His blood. Jesus spoke of His “other sheep” which He would bring into His fold and therefore would be under the care of one Shepherd (John 10:16).

13. This historical perspective is the only prophetic view which gives meaning and purpose to the many spiritual revivals which have taken place in Western Civilization. The greatest spiritual and intellectual awakening was the Protestant Reformation which opened the door for divine revelation to God’s people Israel. This was a big part of the dry bones of Ezekiel’s prophecy coming back to life again (Ez. 37:1-14). Historical spiritual revivals within Anglo-Saxon Israel is fulfillment of the Lord’s word, “I will pour my spirit upon thy seed and my blessing upon thy offspring” (Isa. 44:1-4). The promise of Joel is that the Lord would pour out His Spirit upon “your sons and your daughters” which referred to His people Israel (Joel 2:28-29, Acts 2:15-18).

14. This is the only Biblical perspective that gives proper recognition to the person and work of Jesus Christ in His death on the cross. His purpose in the crucifixion was not only for the atonement of the sins of individuals, but for the redemption of the house of Israel that was under the law (Gal. 4:5) and to ratify with His blood the New Covenant with the House of Israel and the House of Judah (Jer. 31:31-34; Heb. 8:7-13).

15. With the Kingdom perspective in view it allows Jesus to fulfill the Biblical role as: A. Prophet to Israel - Deut. 18:15-19 B. High Priest for Israel - Zech. 6:12-13 C. King over Israel

16. This is the message within the confines of Biblical theology which offers hope for national revival and restoration. In spite of all the problems facing the Israel nations, the Gospel of the Kingdom is the only message that addresses these problems and offers a solution to all personal and national dilemmas. The Kingdom Gospel incorporates God’s divine moral laws and statutes as our national constitution whereby to govern our nation and regulate all aspects of society. It is the only Christian perspective to accept God’s law as our national and racial guardian and to give heed to the words of the ancient Hebrew prophets.

Although the Bible is one of the most widely read books of the day, it is perhaps the least understood. The individual message of personal salvation through Jesus Christ which it contains has brought peace and assurance to multiplied thousands. However, the national message of the Bible is generally ignored which is contained in the Gospel of the Kingdom. The Anglo-Israel truth explains and teaches through Scripture the great plan of God for the ages. It teaches the necessity for personal salvation only through Jesus Christ and the national destiny for the Covenant Nations as outlined in the prophetic Scripture.

The Gospel of the Kingdom incorporating the Anglo-Israel perspective is no new religion. It is basic to Christian doctrine. Believers have included representatives of all the many Christian persuasions. This great truth emphasizes the Bible’s authenticity and infallibility. It also stresses the fact that the theme of God’s kingdom runs throughout the sacred writing including both Old and New Testaments. This is why Jesus said “therefore every scribe which is instructed unto the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and old” (Matt. 13:52).

>“Behind me today on this platform are some who would say, ‘I believe in the government of John Doe, by John Doe and for John Doe.’ You would say, he was a selfish man. This is no true principle of government. The only principle of government laid down in the Word of God is the government of the people, by God and formed by God. A theocracy. The Kingdom of God must be established upon this earth. Christ came to do it and He will fulfill His part. His Gospel was the Gospel of what, audience? The Kingdom, yes, the Kingdom of God. The Kingdom of God must prevail and all other forms of government must eventually go.”

John Alexander Dowie Zion City, Illinois 1901