The Anglo-Saxon, Germanic and related people are the true genetic descendants of Jacob/Israel of ancient Hebrew history. In keeping with His faithfulness, the Lord raises up stalwart servants in each age that are willing to resist the spiritual apathy taking place around them, to fulfill their calling to present the truth without fear or favor. During the nineteenth century, Satan and his emissaries were putting forth a concerted effort to destroy this nation and its Christian foundations. Notwithstanding, the Lord was watching over His Covenant Word to guard it from being totally silenced by the sinister forces at work. As a prophetic voice to our nation concerning its marriage covenant with our God based upon Exodus 19:1-8; 24:1-8, many anointed men of God were proclaiming the truth of the national message of Scripture as a witness to our people.

One such anointed servant of God was Dr. Joseph Wild. A native of England, he was born on November 16, 1834 at Summit, Littleborough, in Lancashire. As a young man, he first entered the ministry with the Primitive Methodist Church at the early age of sixteen years old, where he served as an itinerant preacher. At the age of twenty-one, he emigrated from his native land to the United States, where he traveled throughout the South and West holding religious meetings as a preacher and lecturer. After this two year phase of his ministry, he accepted the pastorate of a Methodist Episcopal Church located at Hamilton, Ontario, where he remained for one year.

Feeling his need for further Biblical education, Joseph Wild enrolled in a three year course of theology at the Biblical Institute of Concord, New Hampshire. Returning to Canada, he ministered at Goderich, Ontario, and after one year went to Orono, Maine. Following a two year stay in Maine, he returned to Canada to accept another Methodist pastorate in Belleville, Ontario. While there, he also served as professor of Oriental languages and secretary of the treasury at Albert University.

In 1870, Joseph Wild received his Doctorate of Divinity degree from Wesleyan University in Ohio. In 1872, he accepted the pastoral charge of another Methodist church in Brooklyn, New York, remaining there for three years. In order to avoid the itinerant system, he accepted the position as pastor of Union Congregational Church in Brooklyn for about six years. Returning to Canada in 1881, he was called to serve as pastor of the Bond Street Congregational Church of Toronto, Ontario remaining there for many years. Dr. Wild became a very popular preacher of God’s Word and was known throughout Ontario. The church increased in attendance where it became the largest regular Congregation in the whole of Canada. His Sunday sermons were published in the "Canadian Advance" and were circulated in Great Britain, Australia, as well as in Canada.

Dr. Wild was a personal friend of Dr. John Alexander Dowie of Zion, Illinois. By invitation of Dr. Wild, Dowie conducted an evangelistic healing service in the Toronto church. Dr. Wild was a strong believer in the doctrine of the new birth, divine healing and the Anglo-Israel message of the Bible as well as all the other great truths of God’s Word. Being a well known and eloquent preacher of the Gospel, he spoke the profound truths of Holy Writ with passion and conviction to capacity crowds of over 3,000 people each week. His sermons were often printed in the "Toronto Evening News."

In his effort to present the full counsel of God to the people of the Western World, Dr. Wild expounded the national message of Scripture along with the Anglo-Israel truth in an effort to awaken the people to their national origin and destiny. Being a prolific writer, he authored "The Lost Ten Tribes" (1878); "How and When the World Will End" (1879); "The Future of Israel and Judah" (1879); "Talks For The Times" (1886) and "Songs of the Sanctuary" (1886).

The following text is from excerpts of Dr. Wild’s book, "The Lost Ten Tribes." In his book, he so adequately presents the truth of Scripture that the Anglo-Saxon, Germanic and related people are the true genetic descendants of Jacob/Israel of ancient Hebrew history.

Introduuction by Charles A. Jennings

## The Lost Ten Tribes

When I first entered the ministry, I made up my mind that I would try and thoroughly understand the Scriptures. I soon found that a large portion was of a prophetic nature. I set to work according to the usual method, but to my sorrow I soon discovered that the method and rules in general use for Scripture exegesis, among what they called orthodox authors, were very defective and unsatisfactory. The fact was forced upon me that the true method, or key of interpretation, was not in use. I was always persuaded that the Bible was a unit, and that the principles contained in such a unit were beautifully related; and because of such a faith, I wondered more and more as I grew older why we had not a better key of interpretation. Men spiritualized at random, without any kind of rule, except their own fancy. In this manner they expounded the material history of the Old Testament. The whole arrangement was a Babel.

I had faintly discerned that the Scriptures made a distinction between the House of Israel and the House of Judah, and that the prophecies belonging to one could not, in fairness, be applied to the other; and that some prophecies applied to both. It always seemed strange to me, that the people which God said He has chosen for Himself should not be known. The Jews were always known, but where was "Israel, His inheritance?" Again, I could see no point in the Lord swearing so positively about David’s seed and throne lasting to the end of time. Taking them in a typical sense, they were about the poorest types that could have been selected, because of the shortness of their existence, according to the general mode of interpretation.

Some three years ago I began to give a series of sermons on the Ten Lost Tribes. I soon found my own congregation, as well as the public, were interested and profited with the same, as was manifest from the large and constant attendance thereon. By personal interviews and letters, I have been gratified to learn that many have been savingly and truly converted to God through these Discourses. Especially has this been the case with those who were infidel in faith and action towards God and His Word. I have received hundreds of letters thanking me that the key of interpretation presented had made the Bible an interesting and easily understood book. The interest created gave rise to numerous requests for copies of my sermons. The notice by the public press now and again intensified the interest and increased the demand. To meet this desire I made arrangements with the editor and proprietor of a weekly paper called the Champion to publish my evening Discourses. At once the arrangement was found to be profitable to him, agreeable to me, and admirably suited to the public. So for more than a year the Champion has been my faithful messenger on this line. It is a weekly paper, published at New York. I am not personally interested more than this. With its politics and other matter I have nothing to do; but for the sermonic matter I hold myself responsible. I feel free to express my pleasure in the wonderful increase of its circulation. I am glad it goes all over the States, the Dominion of Canada, and is in goodly demand in Great Britain.

What is here made a matter of supposition, has been a solemn fact on the line of human experience. Men have studied the Bible and Providence in this ignorant and confused way. Theologians have thrown away all restraints, and well defined limitations and distinctions of the Bible in their assumed liberty of expounding and spiritualizing the same. No matter to them that there is a God-revealed distinction between Judah and Israel, Manasseh and Ephraim, Samaritans and Gentiles, and the throne of David and the throne of the heathen. Writers and speakers are guilty of using the words Judah and Israel in a synonymous sense, though the words stand for different people, history, and prophecies, soon after the descendants of Jacob settled in Palestine. To aid you in seeing this historical confusion and folly, let me call your attention to them separately.

## JUDAH

What does this word stand for in the Bible? In the first place it is the name of the fourth son of Jacob. In the second place it was the name of his direct descendants or Tribe. In the third place it became the name of the portion of the country occupied by this Tribe in the Promised Land. In the fourth place it became the name of a kingdom and government; this fourth name included the Tribe of Benjamin and their territory. In the fifth place it became the name of the whole country of Palestine, and is now often so used.

On the death of Solomon the country and Tribes finally separated into two Houses, kingdoms, and governments. Nine Tribes went with Jeroboam and three with Rehoboam-namely, Judah, Levi and Benjamin. The Nine Tribed House was called Israel, and the Three Tribed House Judah. This separation was about 975 BC (I Kings 12). From that day til this these two houses have never been united; but they are to be, as scores of statements to that effect are in the good Book (Hosea 1:11). About 580 BC the House of Judah was taken captive into Babylon, remaining 70 years, then they returned to their own land, and remained until the year of our Lord 70, when Jerusalem was destroyed and they were scattered.

## ISRAEL

1. A name given to Jacob after wrestling with the Angel.

2. A term applied sometimes to all the descendants of Jacob.

3. In a spiritual sense, those who believe in Christ.

4. A name that covered and included the Nine Tribes which went with Jeroboam and formed the kingdom of Israel. 

They remained a distinct kingdom, and til now a nationality. From 975 to 725 BC they had some nineteen kings. They were finally carried captive into Assyria by Shalmanezer (II Kings 17). From that captivity they have never returned; as a body they never can, only representatives as stated in Jeremiah 3:14, "One of a city, and two of a family".

Now prophecy points out that it was Israel that was to be lost for a while, and come to light in the latter day. They are known in the Scriptures in contradistinction from others by such terms as the following: "All Israel," "All the House of Israel wholly," "The House of Israel," "Men of Israel," and God calls them His "Servants, Witnesses, Chosen People, Inheritance, and Seed." The lot, course, and providential portion of this people are very marked from any other, especially from the Jew, with whom they are so often confounded. The histories of the two peoples have been wide apart and as different as they well could be.

1. They were to be lost. 
2. They were to be divorced from the Mosaic law. 
3. They were to lose their name. 
4. They were to lose their language. 
5. They were to possess the Isles of the sea, coasts of the earth, waste and desolate places, to inherit the portion of the Gentiles, their seed, land, and cities. 
6. They are to be great and successful colonisers. 
7. Before them other people are to die out. 
8. They are to be a head nation. 
9. To be a company of nations. 
10. To be great in war on land or sea. 
11. To be lenders of money. 
12. To have a monarchy. 
13. To be keepers of the Sabbath. 
14. To have David’s Throne and seed ruling over them. 

And thus I might repeat some 60 positive marks and distinctions setting forth Israel; and yet men wilfully persist in confounding them with the Jews.

## BENJAMIN

The Tribe of Benjamin has a singular and special place in the history of Israel and Judah. Neither the Old or the New Testament can be well understood unless one understands the place of this Tribe in Providence. They were always counted one of the Ten Tribes and reckoned with them in the prophetic visions. They were only loaned to Judah about 800 years. Read I Kings 11. They were to be a light for David in Jerusalem. God, foreseeing that the Jews would reject Christ, kept back this One Tribe to be in readiness to receive Him, and so they did. At the destruction of Jerusalem they escaped, and after centuries of wanderings turned up as the proud and haughty Normans. Finally they unite with the other Tribes under William the Conqueror. A proper insight into the work and mission of Benjamin will greatly aid one in interpreting the New Testament. He was set apart as a missionary Tribe, and at once set to work to spread the Gospel of Jesus. Most of the disciples were Benjamites. Then, after 800 years of fellowship with Judah, they were cut loose and sent after their brethren of the House of Israel. It was needful that the Lion and Unicorn should unite.

## EPHRAIM

This word is not only the name of Joseph’s son and the Tribe, but it is used quite frequently in a generic sense and stands for the Ten Tribes and Manasseh. To Reuben by birthright was the lead politically, but it was taken from him and given to Joseph, and so to Ephraim. From Judah came the Chief Ruler- that is, Christ; but the birthright was Joseph’s (I Chron. 5:1).

To the Ten Tribes the special promises of fruitfulness were given. To the Ten Tribes belong a greater portion of prophecy; and in the history of the world more is allotted to Israel than to Judah. Indeed, the world’s history pivots on the Ten Lost Tribes. I believe you know the God-revealed distinction between the words Israel and Judah. You know that they have a distinct history. Their place and work, promises and blessings, chastisements and rebukes, are as distinct and different as silver and gold.

## THRONE OF DAVID

To this throne God pledged under oath a perpetuity. Also He pledged that someone of David’s Seed should always be on it. The throne and seed are pledged an unconditional existence. This being so, it follows that they must now be in existence, and that finally all thrones will be swallowed up by this one. Queen Victoria is of David, and the English throne is David’s. Hence all the promises and prophecies referring to David’s throne may be found on this line. For prophecy not being of private interpretation such facts may be proven.

That in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies;" Genesis 22:17 Under a divine oath was this prophetic promise made to Abraham. At the time it was given Abraham had, by command, offered his only son Isaac, which offering, to all human appearance, would leave the old patriarch again childless; but his fath staggered not, for human incompetence does not circumscribe the bounds of divine sufficience. The God who commanded Abraham to offer, recalled the command at a certain stage of fulfillment, counting the faith of Abraham as righteousness. In Abraham’s faith Isaac was really sacrificed; hence the divine approval: "By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord; for because thou hath done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, that in blessing I will bless thee and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is upon the sea-shore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies." Genesis 22:16-17 . An oath with men in this day does not mean much in the way of confirmation, but not so with God’s oath. An oath ought to be sacred, and should be the end of doubt and strife. God made a promise to Abraham, and because he could swear by no greater, He swear by Himself. And Abraham lived to see the promise begin to fulfil, and today the heirs of Abraham may look and see the same promise fulfilling, for, as Paul says in Hebrews 6:17; "Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath:"

Who are the heirs of promise? For to them belong many and precious promises, both spiritual and temporal. Spiritually, they are to lead and be responsible for the evangelization of the world. Temporally, they are to be a numerous seed, a powerful people. They are to occupy the ends of the earth, the uttermost parts of the earth, the coasts of the earth, the waste and the desolate places of the earth, the isles of the sea, the heathen, as an inheritance. They are to inherit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities to be inhabited; they are to be the chief of nations; they are to be a company of nations; they are to be a great people; they are to possess the gates of their enemies. Surely such a people should be found, for all these things make it impossible for them to be hid in a corner. One cannot help saying with the Psalmist: "Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord: and the people whom He hath chosen for His own inheritance."

In the English Court of Chancery are vast sums of money, large fortunes waiting for heirs. The court frequently advertises for them, and many in every land respond and are eager to prove their claims; they are anxious to be known and accepted as the descendants and lawful heirs of certain testators. It is often times difficult to establish their claims and prove satisfactorily their identity. The court demands that the evidences of heirship be very evident. In this they are right. But we venture to say that even the English Court of Chancery would not turn away a claimant who had all the distinct marks and abounding evidence of identity that mark and characterize the children of Abraham, especially so in the latter day, for then these characteristics are to be clearer and fuller.

But who are the seed of Abraham according to the flesh? We answer, the descendants of the Twelve Tribes. Now to the natural seed the Bible assigns a distinct work and place. This natural seed is divided in the Bible, the word Israel standing generally for the Ten Tribes and Judah for Two Tribes. These divisions have separate paths appointed them to walk in through the centuries. "All of the House of Israel wholly," "the whole House of Israel," "all the House of Israel, " have a special work. The Ten Tribes are especially called in the Scriptures the seed of Abraham. Sometimes "My chosen;" and again, "Mine inheritance," and "My servant." God, in referring to them in their scattered state, as of His gathering them together, says (Isaiah 41:8:) "But thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend. Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant; I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away." The Ten Tribes are sometimes designated by the word Jacob. If we once get a clear idea who the seed are, then we can search among the people of the earth to find them, because in the latter day they were to be so different from other people, and distinctly marked, we will have no great difficulty finding them. Of the special marks, one was they were to possess the gates of their enemies.

"Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thine habitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy stakes; For thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left; and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities to be inhabited." Isaiah 54:2-3

In the writings of the prophets the feminine gender is often used when speaking of the House of Israel. Quite frequently Israel is spoken of as a divorced woman, as being cast off, and as being barren. Judah remaining faithful to the throne of David and the temple service, and abiding in the land much longer than Israel, is presented as one married. So you will understand Jeremiah 3:8, when he says, "And I saw, when for all the causes whereby backsliding Israel committed adultery I had put her away, and given her a bill of divorce;" Again, Isaiah 50:1 "Thus saith the LORD, Where is the bill of your mother's divorcement, whom I have put away? ..." Yet, though Israel was divorced, forsaken, cast off, and desolate, she was to have more children than married Judah. So the verse preceding the text says, "Sing, O barren, thou that didst not bear; break forth into singing, and cry aloud, thou that didst not travail with child: for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith the LORD." Then came the words of the text bidding her enlarge the place of her tent, or dwelling place, to stretch forth her curtains so as to cover over the new-gotten habitations. To spare not - that is, to be not tardy, or slow - in lengthening out her cords - that is, her influence - and strengthen her stakes - that is, her authority: but to break forth on every hand where there is an opening, and inherit the seed of the Gentiles, and make the languishing and poverty-stricken cities of the nations to be inhabited; in this conquest to go on and fear not. These exhortations are given, and promises are made to Israel after she had left Palestine. No one can say truthfully that they have yet been fulfilled in no degree or sense, unless they find such fulfillment in the conquest of the Saxon race. These predictions cannot apply to the Jews, for they are few.

We have been blind and guilty in the past, unconscious of our origin, and, as a natural consequence, ignorant of our place and special work. In interpreting the Word of God we have been lavish in spiritualizing, and greedy in materializing, over looking the fact that nine tenths of the Old Testament is a material history about one people, and that through them God’s special providence was to flow to all other nations; and the New Testament plants the life and prosperity of the Gentile world upon the course and progress of Israel. God said to Abraham, "In thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed;" and more, "And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed." Israel, being scattered and cast off, became a blessing to the world. They gave to the surrounding nations the only true idea of God, for in their lowest condition and idolatry they preserved the name and knowledge of Jehovah, and Christ sent His disciples after them through one of their own Tribe - namely, Benjamin - telling them not to go into the way of the Gentiles, nor into the cities of the Samaritans, "But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel." To these sheep Christ declares He was sent. Where were these sheep? They were scattered about in Central Asia - in Scriptural language in Cappadocia, Galatia, Pamphylia, Lydia, Bithynia, and round about Illyricum. From these very regions came the Saxons: From here they spread abroad North and West, being the most Christian of any people on the face of the earth then, as well as now. Their reception of the Gospel gave them power over the surrounding nations, to whom they were, as it had been foretold, witnesses for Jesus and Providence in a very special manner.

By the same rule and for the very same reason that Israel conquered Palestine, does England go on from conquest to conquest. And because God remembered to perform His promises made to the patriarchs upon their seed, America was opened for the Puritans, who are without doubt, the descendants and representatives of Manasseh of whom God said, "He should be a people, a great people." Of course, both in England’s rule and America’s there are many defects; but taking all in all; the good will out-way the bad; and more so as the years roll on.

The Saxon people, England and America, stand in a new light to the world by the teachings of the Bible. Being Israel or the Ten Lost Tribes they become at once the chosen agents of God for the glorious purpose of evangelizing the whole world, and finally, by reducing the whole earth to the plane of universal liberty and peace. No hand nor power, nor combination of powers, can stop the onward march of Israel to her God-ordained goal. Her future is to spread on the right hand and on the left. This purpose is strongly set forth by Isaiah 44:7,

"And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I appointed the ancient people? and the things that are coming, and shall come." This same sturdy fact is taught by Paul when speaking to the Athenians, telling them that God "hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell on the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitations." National destinies are not so much things of chance, or prizes for the sword, as many think. God promised to David, when both Israel and Judah were prosperously settled in Palestine under David’s reign, that He would appoint a place for His people Israel, and plant them there, and they should not be moved, neither should the wicked afflict them, as aforetime. (II Samuel 7:10) This promise God has kept. He has given them the British Isles, where none can afflict them, as they were wont to do when Israel was scattered in Asia and Europe. God has found Manasseh a home in this land of blessings and rich acres.

To this end God is overturning, and will overturn until the whole world shall be federated around one throne, and that throne is David’s -the only throne God ever directly established, and the only one He has promised perpetuity to. He has a people - Israel. He has a throne - David’s, and for that throne He has a seed, just as the seed of Levi was selected for Temple service. Turn your attention to the founding of this throne of David. You will find the throne and seed unconditionally confederated, the place and measure of prosperity conditioned on the obedience of the people and throne to God. "The Lord hath sworn in truth unto David; He will not turn from it; of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne." (Psalm 132:11) Again, "I have sworn unto David, thy seed I will establish forever, and build up thy throne to all generations." (Psalm 89:3-4) This promise is to all generations - not a part, nor simply for sixty years. For the kingdom was rent in twain when Rehoboam, the grandson of David, began to reign. The throne of David would be about the poorest type of Christ’s throne and rule, and reign, if we can only see it in Palestine. There it was soon divided, very corrupt. "Thus saith the LORD; If my covenant be not with day and night, and if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth; Then will I cast away the seed of Jacob, and David my servant, so that I will not take any of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to return, and have mercy on them." (Jeremiah 33:25-26) Let anybody with the same mind read the seventh chapter of the second book of Samuel, and they will see that God promised to David that his house and kingdom should be established forever, and that God would set up the seed of David after him. Well might David exclaim when he said before the Lord, "Who am I, Oh Lord God, and what is my house, that thou hath brought me hitherto? And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, Oh Lord God; but thou hath spoken also of thy servant’s house for a great while yet to come." It is a pity men will not take and interpret the Bible by the rules of common sense.

David at this time was king over all the Tribes and was at peace, and settled and prospered. But God told him that "He would appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them that they may dwell in a place of their own and move no more." This promise was to Israel. If the promises of the multitudinous seed were to be fulfilled in Israel, then it would be necessary to find them another place, for Palestine would not hold them. So God has planted them. When Nebuchadnezzar carried the Jews captive, he took the king, Zedekiah, with him, and destroyed all his family, and all the real royal seed of David. Now all of this is plain if we keep in mind that Zedekiah was the last prince of the House of David that ever reigned in Palestine. God removed the Diadem. But in the course of time a lawful heir of the seed of David shall appear, and the throne and the seed will be established in Jerusalem. But where is this seed royal? Answer: It is on the English throne. Listen carefully to the following: Jeremiah tells us that with him he had the daughters of Zedekiah, who had by some means escaped the destroying edits of Nebuchadnezzar (Jeremiah 43:6). And from Jeremiah 44:14, we learn that they visited Egypt and from Jeremiah 44:28, we learn that a small number escaped. Now Jeremiah, being the only prophet in Judah at that time, had a right to take charge of the royal seed. He could not stay in Egypt, nor in Palestine, nor would be go to Babylon. Where then, did the prophet go? He no doubt took ship with the Danites, and sailed for Cornwall, in England for this place was called Tarshish. We learn from Ezekiel the ships of Dan traded in tin, and other things. History and tradition both agree that there landed on the coast of Ireland in the North, a divine man and a princess. God had promised to Jeremiah, his life wherever he went. "But thy life will I give thee for a prey in all places whither thou goest." Jeremiah 45:5

The North of Ireland had been settled with the Tribe of Dan; they at once understood who their visitor was. They called him Olam Folla meaning a divine man or teacher. The princess they call Tea Tephi, the beautiful one from the East. This princess was married to Heremon, of Ulster, the king of Lothair Croffin, for such was the name of the city of Tara. This word Tara is Arat spelled backward. The Hebrew reads from right to left; English left to right. Lothair Croffin was changed in Tara at the time of the wedding. Tara means law. Thus began the seed of David to take root, and from there it spread all over Ireland, then to Scotland, thence to England, and Jacob’s Stone in Westminster Abbey marks the journey of David’s throne, and has always kept with the seed, and they have been always crowned on it. Ezekiel’s riddle is at once solved. The tender twigs were Zedekiah’s daughters. One of these twigs was planted by the great waters in a land of traffic.

The main idea I wish to convey in this book, is that God is conducting His Providence through His ancient chosen people, Israel, whom I believe are found in the Saxon race. And His throne on earth, through which flow the purposes of Providence, is David’s throne, which I believe to be at present the English throne. Queen Victoria (and God bless her) I believe to be of David’s seed. The United States fulfills the role of the Tribe of Manasseh. Therefore, to understand the prophecies, Providence, and the present movements of nations, as well as the future lot and destiny of each, we must read the Scriptures in this light. God has made the children of Israel and throne of David His executive, in time, on earth. They are his executive for civilization, evangelization, order, and conquest. Through them God will conquer the world to a universal peace. As Moses was to God, so is Israel. Moses being a divine executor, was to the people a god - so is Israel to all mankind. Spiritual Israel will come through literal Israel.

I have expressed myself freely, and shall cheerfully grant reviewers, critics and readers the same privilege. I send forth this book with a pure desire that it may do good. Amen, so be it.

by Rev. Joseph Wild, D.D.
Brooklyn, New York
May 1, 1879