

Roger Rusk was born in Atlanta, Georgia into a Christian home in 1906. He first joined the church under the preaching of Evangelist Billy Sunday around World War I. He grew up in a middle income neighborhood as an average teenager. His mother was a school teacher and taught him to read and write before he went to school. He left school at the end of the sixth grade to work in industry. He entered school again in the seventh grade and then attended Atlanta Tech High School. He graduated from a four year program in just three years. It was at this time that he started reading material that created doubt concerning his Christian faith. Upon graduation he went to work at Western Electric Company. He started living an undisciplined life and made things miserable for his family.

He then attended an institute run by the Presbyterian Board of Missions located in North Georgia. While there he earned additional credits in preparation for college. One night while returning from a basketball game a group of students started singing the song "I’m Praying For You." This song reminded him that his mother was praying for him, but he didn’t realize that others were also praying for him. He arrived at his dormitory in a state of emotional upheaval that he didn’t understand. He looked up Ed Ross, an advisor to the boys and asked him to go with him out in the woods to pray for him. Ed Ross prayed and was in a great agony of spirit for him. Roger had a million questions in his mind, but soon realized that his own agony of soul was a personal conflict with the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. He finally gave in and began to cry. He cried for a great long while. He completely surrendered to the Lord Jesus Christ with no resistance left. A great peace came over him. In his own words, Roger Rusk recalls his Christian conversion experience as follows:

"Then I saw Him. Jesus appeared to me standing with an overwhelming view of His love, patience and compassion. He was just standing there. I couldn’t see His face or where His feet touched the ground. His presence was so overwhelming, I just couldn’t resist. After a while the vision passed. I found myself lying on the ground with the dirt and leaves from the forest floor in my mouth. He literally knocked me down and made me eat dirt that night. How long I lay there, I don’t know. I had this unusual experience of coming back to my body after this ecstatic experience with the Lord. After lying there so peaceful for so long, I got up and shook myself off. I then returned to the boys dormitory."

The boys in the room woke up and Roger shared the good news of his new found salvation. All 25-30 boys were awaked. They all gathered in a meeting room and had a prayer meeting rejoicing over Roger’s experience. Soon the whole school was aware of what had happened. Everyone rejoiced and sang songs at the breakfast table the next morning over the good news of Roger’s conversion to Christ. Soon a preacher was called in and a week of meetings were held for more rejoicing over the fact that "Roger Rusk had become a Christian." He had a new found life in Christ. There were also physical consequences such as his hair turning from red and kinky to straight and black; a mole on his lip disappeared and his eyes improved so that he did not require eyeglasses for the next 15 years. Roger recalled; "The Lord Jesus marked my body so that I would never forget what He did for me. This was the crowning experience of my life to meet the Lord Jesus the way I did."

Roger Rusk went on to become a public school teacher for thirteen years. He then became a professor of physics at the University of Tennessee for twenty eight years, where he held the distinguished position of Emeritus Professor of Physics. He was also a member of many professional associations such as the American Physical Society and the Tennessee Academy of Science. In his commitment to his Lord and Savior, he was a life-long student of the Holy Scriptures and wrote extensively on Biblical subjects. Some of his writings have appeared in Christianity Today including the article "Seven Guidelines to a Christian Interpretation of History."

Roger was the brother of Dean Rusk who served as Secretary of State in the administrations of Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.

After a sincere and in-depth study of history and the Bible, Roger Rusk was convinced of the true identification of ancient Israel’s modern descendants as being the Anglo-Saxon, Germanic and related peoples. The following testimony is taken from chapters twelve and thirteen, "The Treasures of Joseph" and "O Rachel, Don’t You Weep" contained in his book entitled, "The Other End of the World."

Introduction by Charles A. Jennings

## THE TREASURES OF JOSEPH

Joseph is one of the most remarkable men in all of Holy Scripture. His character is unimpeachable. He lived from humble beginnings to become the second in office to the ruler of a powerful nation. His wisdom averted a great national catastrophe. He is remembered as a great provider of the people.

The story of Joseph really begins with the courtship of his father, Jacob. When Jacob went back into the East country to obtain a wife from among his own kind of people, he saw and fell in love with Rachel, the daughter of his uncle Laban. Jacob worked seven years for his uncle in order to obtain Rachel for a bride. However, when the expected moment came Laban provided Leah, the elder sister of Rachel, with the excuse that it was the custom that the elder sister should marry first. When Jacob returned to the land of Canaan, Rachel died when she gave birth to Benjamin as they came to Bethlehem. Thus Jacob had twelve sons, only two of which were Rachel’s.

Jacob loved Joseph more than any of his other children and his preferential treatment of Joseph provoked the other sons to jealousy. There are several significant events in the life of Joseph. He developed an ability to interpret dreams. His brothers sold him as a slave in Egypt. Joseph was elevated in position and became second only to Pharaoh in all of Egypt. In the place of Joseph, Jacob adopted the two sons of Joseph into the family as full-fledged sons. This was a private affair, between Jacob and Joseph, and we read the account of this transaction in Chapter 48 of Genesis. It was not necessary that the boys be present. In this act of adoption, Jacob made mention of the promises of the land and the multiplicity of descendants. Also, by this act of adoption, Jacob had thirteen sons, counting Ephraim and Manasseh, as full sons in the place of Joseph.

In the latter half of this same chapter, a wonderful ceremony is recorded. Joseph presented his two sons to Jacob who proceeded to bless them. This is a very special blessing, and it is to be noted that the name Israel is used on this occasion for Joseph’s father. Therefore, this blessing is of covenant significance. The blessing was in two parts. First, there was a blessing pronounced on Ephraim and Manasseh together, with a mention of Abraham and Isaac and the promise of a multitude of children. Then there was a blessing pronounced on Ephraim and Manasseh separately, with the pre-eminence given to Ephraim the younger brother. To Ephraim, Israel gave the blessing of a multitude of nations and to Manasseh the blessing of a great nation. How can these blessings ever be realized by a small group of people in the land of Palestine today?

Jacob, knowing that he was about to die, called all his sons together and orally gave his last will and testament. The most prominent of these blessings is that given to Joseph in verses 22-26 [Genesis 49:22-26]. We read, "Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well; whose branches run over the wall." The blessing of Joseph thus begins with the blessing of a multitude of children; which had already been passed on to Ephraim and Manasseh the sons of Joseph in the previous chapter. The blessing of Joseph continues in verse 23, "The archers have sorely grieved him, and shot at him, and hated him: But his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel:) Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee;" This portion of the blessing speaks of conflict or military activity in which the people of Joseph would be aided by the Almighty. Continuing in verse 25, we read, "and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, and of the womb:" This certainly speaks of a favorable environment of land and sea in which the people would flourish and produce many offspring, fulfilling the promise of a multitude of seed.

The birthright passed from Reuben, the first born of Leah, to Joseph, the firstborn of Rachel, Jacob’s favorite wife. The passage in I Chronicles five continues: "The genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright. For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the chief ruler; but the birthright was Joseph’s." Let it be repeated and emphasized that Jacob’s blessings upon his sons and his grandsons took place several centuries before the old covenant at Mt. Sinai and a thousand years before there was a Jew. We encounter a similar situation again in Deuteronomy 33, when Moses blessed the tribes of Israel when they were ready to enter the promised land after their wilderness years.

Again, as in Genesis 49, Joseph is prominent. In Deuteronomy 33:13 we begin to read, "And of Joseph he said, Blessed of the LORD be his land, for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, and for the deep that coucheth beneath, And for the precious fruits brought forth by the sun, and for the precious things put forth by the moon, And for the chief things of the ancient mountains, and for the precious things of the lasting hills, And for the precious things of the earth and fulness thereof." All these are promises of great material abundance, involving wealth from sea, sky and land. Great agricultural wealth and great mineral wealth are here promised.

The blessing of Moses continues in verse 16. "and for the good will of him that dwelt in the bush." This may refer to good relationship with less fortunate peoples in distant lands. We read on in verse 16, " let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the top of the head of him that was separated from his brethren." This repeats the words in the blessing pronounced upon Joseph by his father Jacob, showing the favored position of Joseph of the distribution of the promised blessings. In verse 17, we read, "His glory is like the firstling of his bullock, and his horns are like the horns of unicorns: with them he shall push the people together to the ends of the earth." The word for "unicorn" is RAME, which is a very large wild bull, second only to the elephant in size, which became extinct in parts of Asia Minor long ago. It was noted for its ferocity and strength. The word does not refer to the unicorn of mythology. This passage symbolizes an aggressive, expanding, military power which subdues many weaker people throughout the earth. Finally, in verse 17, we read, "and they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh." This much repeats the blessing of the multitude of seed which was transferred to Joseph and through him to his sons as mentioned before in Genesis 48.

These two mainstreams of covenant blessings provided the natural cleavage in later years which became the basis of the division of the kingdom following the death of Solomon into the House of Israel and the House of Judah. These two groups have different histories, different promises, different functions, and different destinies. "But the birthright was Joseph’s," we read. Not only the birthright, but great and wonderful promises of blessings were given to Joseph. Promises of greatness and wealth. Promises of strength and power. Promises of abundance and treasure. Since the people of Joseph are never called Jews in the Bible, then how can we expect that these promises can ever be fulfilled by a people to whom they were never given? The last verse in the book of Genesis reads, "So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt." This is where the majority of Christians leave him: dead, in a coffin in Egypt. We shall see.

The Bible frequently uses the name Joseph and Ephraim when it speaks about the northern people; not on every page nor on every breath, but enough to show they are synonymous. All of Hosea is a message addressed to the people of the northern tribes under the name "Ephraim." How did God "sow them in the earth"? He scattered them among the nations. He covered them as seed is covered. He sowed them where they would remain undetected until the coming forth of the green leaf. Although Israel disappeared from the pages of history, Israel was never lost. God hid them. They were lost to public view, but always known to God. To the world, "they were not." In many Old Testament passages it can be seen that Joseph-Israel or Ephraim-Israel came into the blessings made to the fathers, but usually in some limited way.

Just as emphatic as were the prophets in denouncing the people for their sins, so were they emphatic in their message of redemption and restoration. Not only emphatic, but exultant in their proclamation of God’s final consummation of His purpose in Israel and Israel’s glorious restoration. Paul tells us in Galatians 3:17, "And this I say, that the covenant, that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, that it should make the promise of none effect." Although the Law would not hinder or set aside the fulfillment of the promises, it is the Cross that makes fulfillment possible.

Jesus came to confirm the promises according to New Testament scripture. Romans 15:8 says, "Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers." In Luke 1:54-55 we read, "He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy; As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for ever." Also, Zacharias exclaimed, in Luke 1:72, "To perform the mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant; The oath which he sware to our father Abraham." The coming of Jesus Christ, the "one seed" of Genesis 22:18 and Galatians 3:16, is the most essential part of the promises which God gave to Abraham. The entire program of redemption hinges upon the Cross.

During the period of history when Israel was entering the long-term punishment for their sins, the prophets, in additions to their indictment to the sinful people, almost in the same breath, proclaimed a bright future in which the promises would be realized. In Hosea 1:10, we read, "Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to pass, that in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people, there it shall be said unto them, Ye are the sons of the living God."

In Isaiah 54:2-3, we read, "Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thine habitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy stakes; For thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left; and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities to be inhabited." In Deuteronomy 32:8, we are told, "When the most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel." And remember, this promise of the multiplicity of seed was given to Joseph and his sons Ephraim and Manasseh. Since the prophets speak of it as yet future, then in no way can we say this promise was fulfilled in Old Testament times.

When shall these promised blessing fall upon Israel, and upon the people of Joseph in particular? When are the "latter days" and the "last days"? The term "last days" is used in II Timothy 3:1, Hebrews 1:2, and I Peter 1:20, all referring to the time Christ was made manifest. The terms "last days" and "last time" are used in II Peter 3:3-4, I John 2:18 and Jude 18 to refer to still future events of the time of writing. Then the "latter days" or "last days" must refer to this present days between the two advents of Christ. The people of Israel are to be called the Sons of God. Christians today are called the Sons of God. Then is Israel to be found among Christians? Why not? What is there to hinder? The promised blessing of material well-being and power do not pertain to a millennial age of bliss and peace. We should see some fulfillment of them, therefore, in this present age. Neither are we to look for their fulfillment in the life of the people known as Jews in the world today. There is a vast difference between what Jewish scholars write and what Jewish politicians say about these matters. Beginning with Ezra and Nehemiah, then Josephus, and including the scholars who wrote the Jewish Encyclopedia, all agree that the Jews did not include the ten tribes of the House of Joseph.

Joseph, in terms of his own life and in terms of the wonderful promises given to him, is a type or foreshadowing of what the people of Joseph are to be, are to do, and are to have. We should expect to find the people of Joseph in this right relationship to God, in a position of authority and power among the nations of the world, with surpluses and plenty, rich in natural resources, strong in military power, expanding about the earth, having appeared from out of a wilderness, with an obscure history and without traceable parentage, establishing themselves in a land of their own,  an "appointed place", as God told David . There are the things that we might expect on the basis of our Bible study to characterize the people of Joseph in the "latter days."

Now there is such a people. There is a people in the world today whose past history is lost in considerable obscurity. There is a people who have such great agricultural wealth that the rest of the world is in poverty by comparison. There is a people that well-nigh have a monopoly on the mineral wealth of North America, South America, Europe and Africa, leaving only Asia and the Far East to others. There is a people whose military might is greater than that of all other armies of all other nations in all of recorded history. There is such a people. There is a people who are Christian and are known to the rest of the world as Christian. There is a people whose destiny has been to bear witness of the Christian faith to the rest of the world. There is a people blessed of God above all measure, more than all other people upon the face of the earth. Blessed with natural resources, blessed with wealth, blessed with power and blessed with faith.

Did you ever wonder who these people are? Well, did you ever look in the mirror? To show the relationship of scripture to history, what better hypothesis can we set forth to defend than that we are that people? We have been involved in a westward movement for centuries and centuries, starting in Media the place where Israel was taken into captivity, sweeping across the northern shores of the Black Sea, up the Danube Valley, through the forest of Eastern Europe, skirting the fringes of the Roman Empire, converging on one little island in wave after wave, and later moving out from that spot to the rest of the world. We have spied out a vast new land, established a great civilization in what had been a wilderness. We have established in this land the greatest agricultural prosperity the world has ever known, and this great abundance is being produced by only three percent of our population. We have taken from the ground more mineral wealth in coal, oil, metals and other valuable materials than all other peoples in all of history put together. These things were promised to the people of Joseph. If we are not these people, then why do we have these blessings?

We are a people who have unimaginable military might. Twice in this century we have rescued the world from evil men. Even in this generation we are pushing at the heathen in the ends of the earth in order that some men might have freedom. In none of our efforts have we sought territorial gain or the punishment of conquered people. The benign treatment we have given our enemies following military victory is unheard of in the annals of history. Our effort has been in behalf of freedom.

We are a people in whose heart is the law of God. It is built into our national life because it was in the hearts of those men who founded our nation. It has set the standards of our private and corporate behavior. This law of God is the touchstone by which we judge the increasing evil and lawlessness of our times. This law of God is the mortar which holds the stones of our social structure together. It is our public philosophy.

We are a people whose land is filled with churches. It has been so from the beginning. We are a church-going people. We are known the world around as the people of the Book. The Bible does say that in the latter days the people of Israel shall return and seek the Lord. In the providence of God it has been our destiny to be a witness to the world, to proclaim that the Lord God is God, and that His mighty work through Jesus Christ is the way whereby men must be saved and live as children of God. It has been said that 98% of all Christian literature and 95% of all Christian missionaries, outside the Roman church, have come from this one particular group of people, namely, the English speaking people and their kinsmen in northern Europe. We have witnessed to the world, and this witness has gone to every nation. Some governmental representative of every soul on the face of this earth in this generation has heard the Gospel message. Not every individual, but the political and social leaders who represent every person in the world have heard it. Why this drive to evangelize the world? It just comes with us; it has been our burning desire since Reformation days, and God has provided the material means in the form of transportation, communication and printing to enable us to carry out the Great Commission.

We are a people whose history is consonant with the fortunes of the people of Israel as told in the Bible. We have returned to God, and God has blessed us mightily. Do you realize just what it means that we as a people have practically encircled the whole world since the time we first began our westward trek? We have gone nearly all the way around the world; westward, westward, always westward. Why did Paul go west? Why did God call him to Macedonia? Why did he not go into Africa, or India or China? Did you ever consider what fortunes of history were involved in the selection of a direction for the main thrust of the Gospel? There must have been a purpose in it, for in God’s history, nothing is left to chance. Could it be that the people whom God intended should receive the Gospel were already in northern Europe?

These are the promises, and these are the facts. We have looked in the mirror of history. What is the explanation. Who are we? Make no mistake, we need to be explained. There is just a tremendous amount to be explained to account for our place in history. Whatever scheme of interpretation of scripture that we adopt must include an explanation of our own people in the world today. What are the alternatives? If we are not literally, historically and corporately the people of the Book, then just who are we? It might be said that all these blessings have come upon us because as any other Christian people we enjoy the blessings in which God showers upon His children in any age. This is contrary to the teachings of Scripture to the effect that as Christians in this age we are to expect suffering. The blessings we enjoy are of the specific kind given to the House of Joseph as the descendants of Abraham, not to Christian gentiles, although the condition for the restoration to the place of blessing is contingent upon the people of Joseph becoming Christian.

Many people have been led to believe that the people we know in the world today as the Jews are to fulfill all the prophecies relating to Israel and enjoy the blessings promised to the fathers. But the Jews do not qualify. They cannot qualify. They cannot qualify because they are not the whole of Israel. The Bible says much about the separation of the people of Abraham into distinctive groups each with its own part to play in the story; and the Jews are only one part. If we think that at some time the Jews are to fulfill the promises made to the fathers, why not more rightly think that the people to whom the promises were made would fulfill them? The Jews are not that people. They say so. Yet Christian people go on assigning to them this role without question. For too long we have ascribed the fulfillment of many promises to the wrong group of people, promises specifically assigned to the people of Joseph and Ephraim. The Jews nowhere have ever admitted that they are those people; in fact, they themselves disclaim it, completely and explicitly, in the statements of their scholars and by their prayers for the future restoration of their brethren of the House of Joseph.

Now this is not a doctrinal matter. It is a primarily a question of who we are. Christians who were brought up to believe that all these wonderful things in some far off future time would happen to the people that we know as the Jews, should reexamine their understanding. If the Jews are a real people who are to do real things in a real time, then why not Israel? Why should a question of this importance be swept off into some dark corner as if it were sacrilegious or unworthy of consideration? The time is come in the history of the world when God’s people are going to know who they are.

Well, just who do you think they are? The churches have traditionally taught that the church in a spiritual sense has inherited all the promises made to the Old Testament people, and that in a spiritual sense the church today is the Israel of God. If this were true, then why, after nineteen hundred years, is there still a people identified as the Jews? And if Judah is still here, then why not Israel? A lot of straining is being done today to make this Jewish venture in Palestine fit prophecy, and it just will not fit.

This proposition explains our history as a people, our present position in the world, and our entire missionary witness. We are known corporately as a Christian people; whether we think we are or not, to the outside world, we are. And we are in the land to which multitudes wish to come. What better rationale of history can we find?

> O Rachel, don’t you weep! Joseph is alive

By Professor Roger Rusk - A Personal Testimony and Prophetic Witness. 