One of the most remarkable things about the sovereignty and faithfulness of our God is that He always prepares a man for each age and locale to proclaim the message of His Word that is missing from most pulpits of the day. One of those men for America in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries was Martin Lyman Streator.

He was born into the home of a Disciples of Christ minister on November 12, 1843 in Martinsburg, Washington County, Pennsylvania. His father, Lyman P. Streator was the founder and operator of an academy in Washington County when Martin, the oldest of five sons and one daughter was born. Each son excelled in his respective career; one as a lawyer, another as a medical doctor and two as ministers of the Gospel.

In fulfilling his call to Christian ministry, Martin L. Streator attended Bethany College in West Virginia which was founded by Alexander Campbell. Martin graduated in 1866. As a minister he served at Disciples of Christ Churches located in Connellsville and Bethel, PA. On June 2, 1868 he married Anne Rebecca Bugher. The Disciples of Christ organization was co-founded by Alexander Campbell in 1832, which was also known as the Christian Church and for all practical purposes was the same as the Church of Christ until 1906.

Martin L. Streator filled the position as the State Evangelist for Pennsylvania for five and a half years before becoming the minister at Youngstown and Ravenna, Ohio. He then accepted the charge as a missionary pioneer to the State of Montana under the auspices of the Christian Women’s Board of Missions. While serving the congregation at the Helena Christian Church, he was asked to assist in the forming of a new congregation in the frontier town of Bozeman, Montana. In about 1888 this new congregation was formed largely from pioneer settlers from Missouri, Kentucky and other eastern states.

After a long, productive and faithful life for his Lord and Savior, Martin L. Streator passed away in Helena, Lewis and Clark County, Montana in 1926. He was an eloquent speaker and prolific writer. Among his most noted literary works were "The Anglo-American Alliance in Prophecy," published in 1900 and "The Hope of Israel," in 1903. In his first book, he sets forth a profound and convincing exegesis from Scripture in favor of the Israelitish origins of the Anglo-Saxon, Germanic and related peoples.

A quote from Martin Streator’s book so aptly shows the depth of understanding that he was taught by Professor Campbell concerning the permanency of God’s chosen people Israel as a national entity. Concerning this, Streator remarks; "Alexander Campbell, who was a profound investigator of the development of the divine purpose in its unity and simplicity, has some notable sayings in the "Millennial Harbinger," which are worthy of reproduction at this crisis in the affairs of the world, when the manifestation of the divine purpose is beginning to dawn on the minds of men. Writing of the "permanency of Israel as an everlasting nation, or people," as foretold in Jeremiah 31:35-37, Mr. Campbell says:

"They were from their origin, and they will be to the close of the earthly drama of humanity, a standing monument and miracle of the special providence, and special moral government of Jehovah, as the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob...

"There is one oracle of our Apostle Paul that commands much thought, and which furnishes a very safe sign post, at a very difficult angle, in our pathway along the lines of the prophetic chart. It is laconic in a superlative degree. It reads thus: ‘The gifts and callings of God are without change of purpose’ or ‘repentance,’ on his part. He has a scheme, a purpose, a plan in creation, providence, moral government, and in redemption, from which He never departs.

"Our highest wisdom is expressed, and our most profound devotion developed, when we sincerely, humbly, and prayerfully ask - What saith the Spirit of Inspiration in His holy oracles?"

Alexander Campbell was very instrumental in the "Restoration Movement" that influenced a large portion of American Churches in the nineteenth century. To this present day the effects of that religious movement are still felt throughout many denominations and independent churches. It determined the informal way of worship as opposed to the ceremonial and traditional service of the historical European churches of the American Colonial period. It was an effort to return to the original Apostolic form of worship.

After reading the profound and eloquent exposition of the Abrahamic Covenant, the fulfillment of the work of Christ in redeeming His people and the role that the Anglo-Saxon and related people have played in fulfilling Bible prophecy, one can not help but feel that Streator’s listeners were privileged to hear such Biblical teaching. Is it possible that this teaching was not only widely known, but was a mainstream belief in the late nineteenth century?

In 1903, three years after his book was published, Streator commented on its wide spread public acceptance and quoted several literary reviews. He said; "The author wishes to express his gratitude for the various notices and reviews of the book which have appeared in the public Press, and for the strong words of approbation of it from all parts of the Anglo-Saxon world. The people and the Press have recognized that ‘the chief purpose of the book is to ascertain the true philosophy and the sure consummation of history as revealed in the Bible.’

"An Ohio editor gives this estimate of the author and his book: ‘Being spiritually enlightened, and of sufficient mental grasp to apprehend the great world-movements of today, he has so well succeeded in connecting prophetic truth with the living national and international issues of our times that no editor, no minister, no statesman, no man who cares to keep abreast of the times, can afford to do without this book.’

"The British Californian says: ‘He shows wherein it is foretold in the prophecies in the Bible that the Anglo-Saxon race shall dominate the world.’ The Baltimore Sun admits that, according to the teaching of the book in its unfolding of the ethnical covenant of promise, ‘The Anglo-Saxon race is the heir to all the prophetic greatness of the Lost Ten Tribes of Israel.’ The Christian Standard of Cincinnati, one of the greatest religious weeklies of America, characterizes it as ‘a timely book, with a world of thought that should receive the careful attention of all students of the times who are believers of the Bible.’ Past and Future, a London journal says; ‘The truths which it contains are of much worth to Christians at the present crisis of the world’s history.’

"A popular religious journal said concerning the work devoted to their investigation: ‘This is the most fascinating book on the prophecies that has appeared.’ A busy author wrote in the midst of hard work: ‘The reading of it fascinated me more than a volume of the best romance.’ If it is romantic, the reason thereof is simply that it deals with the divine romance of the ages, in which Jehovah, while executing justice and righteousness in the earth, manifests his loving kindness towards Israel, to whom He makes this precious declaration:

"Yea, I have loved thee with an everlasting love: Therefore with loving kindness have I drawn thee." Jer. 31:3

"S.H. Barlett says in The Ohio Work: ‘The third chapter, on the planting of Israel in Britain, begins to fix one’s faith. It develops the tie that binds the old Israelites to the Anglo-Saxon of today. The work is splendidly done, and with convincing force.’ Professor Dimbleby said in his monthly journal, Past and Future, published in London, and circulating in every English speaking country in the world: ‘Approaching next is the planting of Israel in Britain, the Islands of the West. Whatever strength he obtained from Scripture in the former part of his subject, he now seems to move with a consciousness of the artillery of power.’ Concerning this distinction in the covenants of promise given to the fathers, The Christian Evangelist of St. Louis says:

‘the author sights many prophecies concerning Israel which he claims have never had any fulfillment unless in the history of the Anglo-Saxon people."

Commenting on the faithfulness of God toward His people Israel, Streator said: "Jehovah is faithful to His covenant in fulfilling every promise concerning His chosen people. Now we can see how He is performing His pleasure and accomplishing His purpose, even that which, foretold from olden time to the Hebrew patriarchs, has never been done till fulfilled by the Anglo-Saxons in our own days. So it was to be according to the prophecy. The great deeds in their modern history, marvelous in themselves, become more wonderful when seen to be the literal fulfillment of the promises given to the fathers, which manifests ‘coercion that belongs to the decrees of God,’ in giving to His chosen people ‘the heritage of the nations’ (Psalm 111:6). He says to them with the assurance of omniscience:

"Ye are my witnesses that I am God." Isaiah 43:12

"The God of truth does not confirm a lie in fulfilling promises that are false."

"They are the living and the life giving centre of the patriarchal history which radiates from Him. Far more than this is true, for they are the theocratic center of the whole history of the elect race with its promised ‘company of peoples’ in the great Republic of the United States, and its promised ‘company of nations’ in the Empire of Great Britain."

"The covenants of promise are cyclical. The course of the development of the chosen seed is this: A son, a family, twelve tribes, a nation, two nations, a race of many nations, a company of peoples and a company of nations, an alliance of all the families and nations of Israel, the fullness of the nations promised to Israel that fill the face of the world with fruit, and the inheritance and the dominion of the inhabited earth by the holy seed of the stock of Israel. This is the divine scheme as declared expressly in the Holy Scriptures."

"Through the manifestations of His judgments all the nations will come worship before Him. Trusting in Him we can rest in perfect peace in this comforting assurance of the God of the covenants of promise given to our fathers: - ‘I Yahweh, thy God, am firmly grasping thy right hand, who am saying unto thee: Do not fear! I have become thy Helper, do not fear! Thou worm Jacob, ye men of Israel, I have become thy Helper, declareth Yahweh, and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel." Isa. 41:13-14 (Rotherham’s translation)

"With his presence, and help, and blessing, we will not fear, but will triumph through the might of the God of our Salvation, to whom we will ascribe through the ages to come the glory, and the honour, and the power."

Blessed be Jehovah God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things: And blessed be His glorious name forever: and let the whole earth be filled with His glory. Psalm 72:18-19

In the second volume of Streator’s book entitled, "The Anglo-American Alliance in Prophecy -or- The Promises to the Fathers" he lists the following table of contents:

>Chapter X The Stone of Israel
>Chapter XI The Blessing of Manasseh, or the United States of America in Prophecy
>Chapter XII The American Revolution in Prophecy
>Chapter XIII The Migration of Israel into the Wilderness of the Peoples
>Chapter XIV The Emancipation Proclamation in Prophecy
>Chapter XVI The Times of the Gentiles
>Chapter XVII The Anglo-American Alliance in the Impending Crisis of the world.

Introduction by George W. Southwick, D.D.

"The Anglo-American Alliance in Prophecy."
excerpts taken from Martin Streator’s book

A firm and deliberate conviction that the origin and destiny of the Anglo-Saxon race, with its "assembly of peoples" in the United States of America, and its "company of nations" in the Empire of Great Britain, were foreseen and foretold by the Hebrew prophets, and that these nations, favored of God, are the natural descendants of the beautiful Joseph and the Egyptian princess Asenath, according to the ethnical covenant of promise given in the ancient days to our fathers, and which is now approaching the culmination of its marvelous development in the era of crisis into which the world has entered, has impelled with a force that no longer could be suppressed, the author to write and publish this book. Having been taught from childhood the distinction between Israel and Judah, he has entertained for a quarter of a century the idea of our Israelitish origin and destiny. But he has never held the idea that we are Jews, or that we are of Jewish descent. The patriarch Jacob had twelve sons, of whom Judah was only one son among twelve brothers. The nation of Israel had twelve tribes, of which Judah was only one tribe among the twelve.

The searchers for truth on this subject are exploring every realm of information, seeking for it as for hidden treasures in archaeology, mythology, chronology, and history. They are finding pearls of great price buried in the rubbish of ages. While appreciating the evidence from all of these sources, I have searched the Scriptures diligently to find out what they taught on the topic in promises, prophecies, and recorded facts.

These ideas are the thoughts of God flashing forth in these modern times from the ancient divine revelation. They were the inspiration of the chosen people of God in the olden days. They are not an invention of human genius, but a discovery of divine thoughts that were hidden for ages in a mystery. The finding of Our Identity with Israel has restored to their original power the promises given to the fathers, and has revealed for our admiration and delight the significance of great and mysterious prophecies that were written for the fuller development of the racial covenant of promise. These thoughts of God are becoming living realities, embodied in the words and actions of His chosen people. They are giving direction to the international policy of the two greatest nations on the earth. They are to be accomplished by the stupendous and magnificent facts of history fulfilling on a world-wide scale the unfailing promises of the Almighty to His elect race. They are the ideas which make heroes of God for the impending war of Armageddon.

The three covenants of promise, national, Christian, and racial, which were given to the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, pervade in their development the entire divine revelation from the call of "the friend of God" and "the father of the faithful." They determine the course of events throughout the ages, they reveal the mystery of the Providential government of the world, they explain the true philosophy of history, they exhibit the order of the great dispensations of religion, they announce the divine plan of the ages, they show the sacred origin of the most vigorous race the world has ever seen, they foretell in words of patriotic delight its glorious destiny, they indicate what will be the final outcome of the eminent war of races for which the nations of the world already are arming themselves to the upmost, and they demonstrate in their fulfilment the plenary inspiration of the Bible and the truthfulness and the faithfulness of God. These things justify the most thorough investigation of the covenants of promise given to the fathers, and confirmed by the mission and work of the Messiah.

Secular history generally is written from the standpoint of Rome. It is a suitable center for studying the world empires of the Gentiles. But it is not at all adapted to studying the prophecy and history of Israel. We need to take our stand at Jerusalem and Samaria, follow the elect race and its wanderings among the nations, and study history in its relation to the chosen people as the center and finally as the circumference of the whole historic movement. The world empires of the Gentiles however stable and mighty they may appear are standing on fragile feet of iron and clay, destined to totter and fall into irretrievable ruin, and to be swept away by the wild winds of anarchistic revolution into utter extinction. But the nation of Israel, according to the sure promises of the God of the covenants, is as firmly established and as permanent as the laws of nature, and will continue to be a nation while the sun endureth.

God had kept guard over this land (North America) for ages that He might give it in fulfilling His promises to His chosen people Israel.

This Israel we find in modern times in the Anglo-Saxon race, the people which God hath blessed. We can now see that they with their many nations are the people of chief importance in the world. God saw that always, and has prepared the way for it. This is one of the great mountains of God that arrested the gaze of the inspired seers as they looked out across the ages. They could not ignore the vision of this grand epochal mountain. We will not ignore the preeminence of the Anglo-Saxon race in this era of crisis. Epochs are the beacon lights on the mountain tops of prophecy and history. Their light shines out into the darkness far into the past and the future.

## CHRONOLOGY IS THE BACKBONE OF PROPHECY AND HISTORY

The eternal Jehovah, the God of the covenants of promise, according to the good pleasure of His will, which he purposed in Himself, saw fit for reasons satisfactory to infinite omniscience to give the ethnical covenant with its manifold blessings of a multitudinous race developing into "a company of peoples" and "a company of nations" to the pure and beloved Joseph and his two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh. Tracing the essential elements of these promises through the Bible, and watching their gradual fulfilment in history, we find the promised ‘company of peoples’ in the peoples of many states united in " a strong nation," constituting the great Republic of the United States of America. The most notable events of our history were foretold in the Bible.

"Unless the Prophets faithless be - and Seer’s words be vain, wher’er is found Jehovah’s throne, Prince David’s line shall reign."

As Palestine was the land of promise for the nation of promise so Britain is the land of the covenant for "the many nations" promised in the racial covenant. It is the place appointed of God for the planting of His people Israel; it is "a place prepared of God" for the refuge of Mother Israel beyond the dominions of Rome, into which she fled for safety from the face of the serpent; it is the place into which the "wanderers among the nations’ called from "the corners" of the earth, gathered together for a new national and racial development; it is the place where it was said to them, "ye are not my people" and where through their conversion to Christ they became "the sons of the living God"; it is the place in which under the divine planting they took root; the place where they blossomed and budded, increased and multiplied until the place became too narrow for them; the place from which they sent forth their swarming colonies into "the desolate heritages" of the earth; the place which fondly is regarded as the mother land of the free nations of the Anglo-Saxon race around the world: – this place the Almighty guaranteed in His sure covenant of promise to protect by the might of His omnipotence from the assaults of foreign invasions. Since the settlement of the tribes of Israel in the Islands of the West no armed forces have been able to land on their shores. Phillip of Spain with his "Invincible Armada" tried it. "The Lord sent His wind and scattered them." Napoleon Bonaparte gathered his flotilla for the purpose, but did not dare to attempt it. The children who went forth from that island home have not forgotten their mother. They are growing into many nations, and are found in all quarters of the globe.

In the solemn warnings which God gave to Israel through Moses, he said concerning their long racial chastisement for willful and persistent disobedience: "I will smite you, even I, seven times for your sins... I also will chastise you seven times for your sins." Lev. 26:24, 28

This repeated warning intensifies its solemnity, and assures the elect race of the certainty of the divine chastisement for their sins. This did not involve their rejection, but their correction and reformation, and their final restoration. In taking a comprehensive view of the chosen people in relation to the Seven Times of Israel’s chastisement as foretold by Moses, and the corresponding Times of the Gentiles in their dominion over the promised land, we find three great things foretold by the Hebrew prophets concerning the elect race:

1st. The scattering of the chosen people (Lev. 26:31-33), and the sifting of them "like as grain is sifted in a sieve" (Amos 9:9) in their wandering among the nations (Hosea 9:17) during the first half of the Times of the Gentiles. (Daniel 2:37-40).

2nd The planting of the chosen seed in the land of the covenant according to the promise given to King David (II Sam. 7:10-11), and the sowing them for God in the earth (Hosea 2:23), even in far countries (Zech. 10:9), which takes place during the second half of the Times of the Gentiles. "There were given to the woman (Israel) the two wings of the great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness unto her place, where she is nourished for time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent." (Rev. 12:14). This is three and a half times, the half of the Seven Times of chastisement foretold by Moses, the 1260 year-days of John. (Rev. 12:6).

3rd The gathering of the scattered people of the elect race into a compact ethnical union in the era of crisis at the end of the Times of the Gentiles.

"Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come. For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof. So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth thy glory. When the LORD shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory. He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer. This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the LORD." Psalm 102-13-18

And their seed shall be known among the Gentiles, and their offspring among the people: all that see them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed which the LORD hath blessed. Isa. 61:9

Inspired seers that looked afar, and heroic statesmen that grappled with the vital principles of national and racial prosperity were the Hebrew prophets. They were taught of God to discern the real course of the life of their race, and to foretell its development unto the remotest ages. Their warnings and instructions and policies were based on the world-wide expansion of their race, and its final triumph over all opposing forces. The world idea originated in the promises given to the fathers which related to "many nations" of both the natural and the spiritual seed, and the blessing through them of "all the nations of the earth." We need not think it strange that the prophets of Israel deal with world-wide issues, for these were the things guaranteed in the ancient promises given to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. They inaugurated policies of national and ethnical development that were to extend over the earth, widening in their influence through the ages, and reach their consummation only in the millennial reign of righteousness and peace throughout the world. In spite of all divisions, in the midst of all disasters, these sagacious and prescient statesmen of God looking forward to the unity and universal expansion of their race as the means chosen of God according to His promises for the consummation of His work in the world. Many men have been deceived concerning the scope of the Bible by some of the later manifestations of narrow Jewish exclusiveness. The purpose of God in choosing an elect race was not limited to the confines of little Palestine. God promised, and reiterated the promise over and over again, that in the seed of Abraham all the nations of the earth should be blessed. But in order to bless all nations He especially blesses one nation. To bless all races He peculiarly blesses one race in order to fit them as a means of blessing for all people. This was fully recognized in ancient Israel as evinced in their sacred prayer-song in which they sang as the chosen servants of God for the blessing of the world. This was its burden:

>"God be merciful unto us, and bless us;
>And cause his face to shine upon us; .
>That thy way may be known upon earth,
>Thy saving health among all nations." Psalm 67:1-2

The divine work is accomplished through the Messiah, the Holy One of Israel as the personal servant of Jehovah. But His work is carried on through ages and throughout the world by Israel as the ethnical servant of Jehovah.

Jeremiah ...in the third chapter he repeatedly contrasts "backsliding Israel" with "treacherous Judah," and addresses Israel in exile beyond the confines of Palestine. He declares: "And the LORD said unto me, The backsliding Israel hath justified herself more than treacherous Judah. Go and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, Return, thou backsliding Israel, saith the LORD;" (Jer. 3:11-12 ). This language of Jeremiah is conclusive evidence that "backsliding Israel" had left the land of promise and was dwelling at the time of Jeremiah’s writing in the land of the North. Although God had cast out His people, He did not cast them off. The Psalmist says: "Jehovah will not cast off His people, neither will He forsake His inheritance." (Psalm 94:14).

In the same chapter in which Jeremiah foretells the new Covenant, and in immediate connection with the great prophecy concerning it, God declares that the nation of Israel, which then had been in exile over a century, shall be as enduring as the ordinances of nature, that it is as permanent as the stars. Note the force and decisiveness of his language concerning the exiled race of Israel of the Ten Tribes.

"Thus saith the LORD, which giveth the sun for a light by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night, which divideth the sea when the waves thereof roar; The LORD of hosts is his name: If those ordinances depart from before me, saith the LORD, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before me for ever. Thus saith the LORD; If heaven above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath, I will also cast off all the seed of Israel for all that they have done, saith the LORD." Jeremiah 31:35-37

If there be any such a thing as veritable prophecy, we find it here under the repeated affirmation of Jehovah. The Apostle Paul was familiar with this prophecy, and when he recalled it and the promises to the fathers on which it is based, he could not do otherwise than write, when treating of the rejection and the final restoration of Israel, what should be a delight to every Israelite in the world. "God did not cast off His people whom he foreknew." (Romans 11:2). The divine scheme of the ages involves that they shall never cease from being a nation before Him. According to the fiat of the eternal Jehovah the laws of moon and stars will perish when the seed of Israel ceases to be a nation. Why not take God at His word, and believe what He says? It is of little importance that men lost sight of this nation and race for a time, and that when they appeared again in the arena of history as its chief actors, the men of Greece and Rome did not at all know who they were, and characterized them as Northern Barbarians. God never lost sight of them. Before Him they constitute a nation forever. He has a plan of the ages involving their destiny and the dominion of the world from which He never departs. Nature itself will sink into decay and ruin when the race of Israel ceases to be a nation before Jehovah. This language of the prophet cannot possibly refer to the House of Judah, for the Jews ceased to be a nation when Titus destroyed Jerusalem, since which time they never have had a national existence. But throughout all this period the race of Israel has maintained itself as a nation, and has finally developed into many nations.

## PLANTING OF ISRAEL IN BRITAIN

The Israelites did not return to Jerusalem with the Jews. But they cherished the hope of Israel in looking forward to the restoration and dominion of the chosen people. While many of the Jews returned to Palestine, the Israelites did not return. Josephus says expressly:

"Many of them took their effects with them and came to Babylon, as very desirous of going down to Jerusalem; but then the entire body of the people of Israel remained in the country wherefore there are but two tribes in Asia and Europe subject to the Romans, while the Ten Tribes are beyond Euphrates till now, and are an immense multitude, and not to be estimated by numbers." (Antiquities, B. XI, Ch. V, sec.2)

When God cast out the Ten Tribes He did not cast them away, but even then renewed to them the promise of multiplicity given to their fathers saying to them in Hosea: "Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of the sea, which can not be measured or numbered." Hosea 1:10

This declaration of the prophet confirms the accuracy of the statement of Josephus that the Ten Tribes were "an immense multitude, and not to be estimated by numbers." This is a fulfillment of the promises given to the fathers. These things refute the hypothesis that they were absorbed and assimilated by other nations. They retained their identity and distinct nationality, and became the heroes of earth’s history. The race of Israel was transplanted from Palestine to the Islands of the West, and became the great maritime people of the world. They occupied the end of the earth in the old continent.

Jehovah addresses them in these words adapted to islanders and mariners.

"Sing unto Jehovah a new song, and His praise from the end of the earth; Ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein, the isles and the inhabitants thereof. Let them give glory unto Jehovah, and declare His praise in the islands." Isa. 42:10, 12

God made a covenant with David, ordered in all things and sure. There was nothing haphazard about this covenant. It was all ordered of God. Every promise in it is sure, that is, it is certain of accomplishment in its appointed place and at its appointed time. One of the chief things in this covenant was the land of the covenant, the place appointed by the God of the covenant for the planting of His people Israel, the children of the covenant. Now the Hebrew word for covenant is BRIT or BRET, and the word for island in Hebrew is AI, whence comes our English word Is-land. Hence BRIT-AI or Brit-ain, according to its Hebrew etymology, means covenant-island, or the island of the covenant. Paul B. Du Chaillu says in "The Viking Age"; "In the Sagas . . . Britain itself was called Bretland, and the people Bretar." Now Bret-land means literally covenant-land, or the land of the covenant, as Britain means the island of the covenant. Here are two witnesses in the ancient names of this land indicating that it is the land of the covenant promised for the planting of Israel in the covenant which God made with David, and the island of the covenant according to the descriptions of the islands in the west at the ends of the earth as given by Isaiah. But, in addition to this, consider the following truths: The Hebrew word for man is ISH. Hence BRIT-ISH means literally covenant-man, or man of the covenant. The islands to the northwest of Britain are called Hebrides to this day. Why? How did they get that name? The simple and rational explanation is that they were settled and named by the Hebrews.

## ISRAEL AND CHRIST

The blessings guaranteed to the elect race in the promises to the fathers will not be exhausted for a thousand generations. When God remembers the promises which He made in ancient days for us we in these modern times should never forget them. The virgin Mary cherished the memory of the theocratic government and referred to it in the climax of her magnificent song of praise, saying in the fullness of faith and hope:

"He hath holpen Israel His servant, that He might remember mercy (as He spake unto our fathers) toward Abraham and his seed forever." Luke 1:54-55

The birth of Christ was for the purpose of helping Israel, the servant of God, and was in remembrance of His mercy, toward Abraham and his race forever: all of which was according to the promises which he spake in the covenants given to our fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. The events attending the birth of the Messiah and his harbinger, John the Baptist, had reference to the fulfillment of things promised to our fathers in the covenants given to them by Jehovah. This was recognized by Zacharias, the father of John, when filled with the Holy Spirit. He said regarding the covenants of promise:

"Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel; For He hath visited and wrought redemption for His people, And hath raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of His servant David. . . to show mercy towards our fathers, and to remember His holy covenant; the oath which He sware unto Abraham our father." Luke 2:68-73

The whole Gospel of Christ is but one of the developments of the theocratic covenants of promise given long ages before in the times of the patriarchs. As Christ is the personal servant of Jehovah, so Israel is His ethnical servant, through whose multitudinous seed, consisting of the many nations of promise, the triumphs of Christ among all nations throughout the world are consummated. This is the divine order, revealed of God, indicated in the covenants of promise, and expressly declared in His Holy Word. In the Psalm of the Cross, after depicting in vivid terms the passion of the Redeemer when they pierced His hands and His feet, Jehovah, the omniscient One, said:

"All ye seed of Jacob, glorify Him; and stand in awe of Him, all ye seed of Israel." Psalm 22:23

## Real freedom comes through the hearty acceptance of truth!

The people of the multitudinous race of Israel become submissive to Christ, the Holy One of Israel. The Lord declared though the evangelical prophet Isaiah: "In Jehovah shall all the seed of Israel be justified and shall glory." Isaiah 45:25.

This shows that the race of Israel becomes a Christian people. It is folly to look for lost Israel among heathen tribes. The people of Israel trust in the Messiah, are justified in Jehovah, and glory in the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. If you wish to find the lost Tribes of Israel search for them with the lamp of divine truth in your hand, which will give you the needed light, in the most thorough going Christian race in the world.

The work of Christ, and the proclamation of the Gospel among all nations, is a condition for the conversion and the development of the "many nations" of the Anglo-Saxon race and their expansion under Christian influence "unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills." Genesis 49:26. Judaism was not the cause of Christianity; but it was a favorable condition for its revelation and progressive development. The Gospel of Christ is not the cause of the "many nations" of promise springing from Isaac but it is the indispensable condition for the Christian civilization and the world development of the Saxons. Israel is the heir of the world. Jehovah, the God of the covenants of promise, made this sure pledge:

"I will be as the dew unto Israel; He shall blossom as the lily, and cast forth His roots as Lebanon. His branches shall spread, and His beauty shall be as the olive tree, and His fragrance as Lebanon." Hosea 14:5-6

The spreading branches of the elect race of Israel could not be confined to ancient Palestine. The Messiah blesses them with His gospel and liberty, His righteousness and peace,

"That they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of Jehovah, that He might be glorified." Isa. 61:3

This was according to the patriarchal blessing which Jacob gave to Joseph. He said of the race of his favorite son:

"Joseph is the son of a fruitful tree, a fruitful tree by a fountain: His branches run over the wall." Genesis 49:22

One of the most vigorous influential writers of our times is Dr. Josiah Strong, the General Secretary of the Evangelical Alliance for the United States. He says: "Evidently it is chiefly to the Anglo-Saxon race that we must look for the evangelization of the world. And to show that this is preeminently the missionary race is to show that it is the most Christian race, for the missionary spirit is the essential spirit of Christianity. As the Hebrew carried his pure monotheism around the Mediterranean, so the Anglo-Saxon is carrying a spiritual Christianity around the world."

To one versed in the Hebrew prophets these notable characteristics of the Anglo-Saxon race are theocratic marks of the elect race of Israel. Dr. Strong says truly: "It is the most Christian race." A Christian is characterized by faith in Christ. The Apostle Paul says: "We believed on Christ Jesus that we might be justified by faith in Christ." Galatians 2:16 The prophet Isaiah says,: "In Jehovah shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall glory." Isa. 45:25. The race of Israel is justified in Jehovah by faith in Christ. They become the chief Christian race of the world. Compare these Scriptures:

>"Israel shall be saved by Jehovah by an everlasting salvation." Isa. 45:17
>"I said not unto the seed of Jacob, seek ye me in vain." Isa. 45:19
>"I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring." Isa. 44:3.
>Jehovah hath redeemed Jacob, and will glorify Himself in Israel." Isa. 44:23
>"Thou shalt rejoice in Jehovah, thou shalt glory in the Holy One of Israel." Isa. 41:16
>"I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel." Jer. 31:31
>"It shall be said unto them, ye are the sons of the living God" Hos. 1:10
>"I will save the house of Joseph," "and I will strengthen them in Jehovah." Zech. 10:6, 12
>"And so all Israel shall be saved: Even as it is written, there shall come out of Zion the deliverer; He shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob." Rom. 11:26

Anyone of these declarations in the Word of God is sufficient to show to any candid mind that Israel becomes a Christian people. Taken together they indicate the preeminence of Israel as a Christian race. In this respect the Anglo-Saxon race, and it alone, fulfills the prophetic destiny of Israel.

## Sow truth and give it time to grow!

The logic of events fulfilling for ages the promises of God is the most stupendous evidence in the world. It binds the mind with the golden chain of truth, yet at the same time, setting it free from the delusions of error and falsehood. It gives it the largest possible freedom. Real freedom comes through the hearty acceptance of truth. The Messiah said, "Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." John 8:32

Anything short of truth enslaves as far as its influence extends. Truth unites thought to reality and wings it for its flight to the stars.

The history of the mightiest race in the world in the most enlightened age, fulfilling the promises and prophecies in the Bible concerning the destiny of the chosen people, demonstrates that it is the living word of the living God. The skeptical "higher criticism" will succumb to the disclosures of "the highest criticism," which exhibits to the people the thoughts of God in their reality, in their significance, in their truthfulness, and in their full accomplishment. No infidel can say of this long chain of promise and prophecy that it was "forged" after the events. These things were foretold long ages ago and they are being wrought out through the ages by the chosen people just as they were foretold in that order, as the prophet Isaiah declared, "They may see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of Jehovah hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it. Produce your cause, saith Jehovah; bring forth your strong reasons, saith the King of Jacob." Isaiah 41:20-21

This is the challenge of the Eternal to the men of reason in this skeptical age. Will they dare to accept it? Will they dare to see and question these things? No, they ignore them, for they cannot see and know them and still hold fast to their skepticism. Will they at all consider them? Not yet, but they will be compelled in the end to consider them, however much they may dislike to do so. The stupendous facts of the history of our race in our own times, fulfilling the ancient promises to our fathers, will force intelligent men of all shades of opinion to consider them. The meaning of the promises is plain. Their fulfillment is manifest when you compare the promises with the accomplished facts. The atheist denies the existence of God, and the possibility of any divine revelation. The infidel critics belie the promises, and tear into tatters the sacred prophecies, and prate of their learning and their wisdom. The most intense and bitter bigots in the world are the scientific skeptics who flout at divine revelation. False teachers and erratic preachers are retailing their strong delusions as an evidence of their superior wisdom. As it was in the days of the prophet Jeremiah, in the closing cycle of Judah’s dominion, so it is now in the closing cycle of the Times of the Gentiles.

"Behold, the false pen of the scribes hath wrought falsely. The wise men are put to shame, they are dismayed and taken; lo, they have rejected the word of Jehovah: and what manner of wisdom is in them?" Jeremiah 8:8-9

The time is at hand when, in spite of themselves, they will be compelled by the stupendous facts of history fulfilling history on a world-wide scale to see and know and consider these things. They will be dismayed and taken in their own folly in rejecting the word of the Lord. When they consider His promises and compare them with the history of our race, then they will see and understand that the hand of Jehovah has accomplished w hat His word had promised.

The ancient promises to the fathers survive all their vainglorious and impotent assaults. The Hebrew prophecies abide in their integrity while the shafts of disbelief are breaking into slivers. "The word of the Lord abideth forever." I Peter 1:25. What the prophet Isaiah says is applicable to them in our times, this decisive era of crisis in the destiny of the world.

Martin Lyman Streator, M.A.