During the second half of the nineteenth century, the forces of political, social, educational and religious liberalism intensified throughout every fiber of American life. During the second half of the nineteenth century, the forces of political, social, educational and religious liberalism intensified throughout every fiber of American life. The military victory of Union forces over the South’s effort to secede and the utter desecration of our once Christian culture resulted in a cataclysmic change that has determined the national moral standard to this very day. As a whole, the widespread traditional influence of Biblical Christianity of the South and the remaining embers of it in the North had been crushed under the brutal heel of the self-appointed radical social reformers. The venomous philosophies that had made havoc of the by-gone nations were now tearing at the very framework of the once Christian American way of life. Before long, the once forbidden principles and acts of unrighteousness would be publicly flaunted as the expression of moral and social freedom as the restraints of the Victorian age were being broken.

Religious denominations would also join the ranks of those who cast aside their traditional Biblical beliefs and adopted the tenets of ‘higher criticism.’ Instead of total depravity, it was the sanctity of man; instead of true repentance it was a change of environment as the means of man’s salvation. Instead of the altar, it was now a soup line as the way to express the love of modernism’s ‘god’ and the new ‘social gospel.’ It was apostate religious leaders who were leading the people away from personal and national righteousness. As a counter attack, God began to raise up ‘preachers of righteousness’ to call the nation back to Him and to preach the Gospel of the Kingdom of God. This powerful restorative message would include the knowledge of the Biblical Israelitish origins of the Anglo-Saxon and related peoples of western civilization.

## FORGOTTEN PREACHERS OF RIGHTEOUSNESS

It was not by coincidence at this time in American history, that the Holy Spirit began to reveal to many pastors and evangelists this great truth. Without the knowledge of this Biblical understanding of the correct identification of God’s covenant people, the principles of covenant law cannot be properly applied. The Holy Spirit, in His faithfulness raised up many prophetic voices to warn the American nation of the consequences of its national iniquities. Yet at the same time provided a message of hope, if we would acknowledge our family and covenant connection with our ancient forefathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; truly repent and turn from our wicked ways. The promise of our Lord to “heal their land” as recorded in II Chronicles 7:14 was addressed to “my people.” Through decades of neglect and ignorance of this Anglo-Israel truth the vast majority of God’s Israel people have lost or given away their Biblical heritage. It’s past time that we return to the God of our patriarchal fathers.

For every truth contained in the Holy Scriptures, the Lord has been faithful to reveal it to at least one of His servants. That revelation of truth may be in obscurity even for years, but God will not leave Himself without witness (Acts 14:17). Even though the light of a Biblical truth may burn dimly at times, the Holy Spirit maintains that flicker for succeeding generations. Sometimes that light is dim for a period of time, because it is not the right time to reveal it to the masses. God’s truths are precious and He ever guards them for revelation to His prepared servants to be proclaimed when the spiritual and cultural conditions are right.

The true identification of God’s people Israel is one of those precious truths. This truth God has chosen to reveal in His sovereign plan to certain of His saints among different bodies of believers as a witness of His faithfulness. This He does in preparation for a wider and more public revelation in His future timing of events.

The true Biblical perspective of the Kingdom of God must include an accurate description of the three-fold realms of the Kingdom, which are physical, moral and spiritual. The greatest physical extent of the Kingdom of God would include the universe itself and everything contained therein. Ever since the Protestant Reformation there has been a strong emphasis upon the institution of the Church, which is only one element of the greater and larger institution of the Kingdom. Many Bible teachers have attempted to equate them as one and the same. They are definitely organically related to each other, yet they are not synonymous. The true Church is the genuine spiritual body of Christ within the Kingdom, but it is not the totality of the Kingdom.

One of the most confusing things in the minds of many Christians is the difference between the Kingdom of God and the Kingdom of Heaven. As it is obviously taught in the Old Testament, and reinforced by the teachings of our Lord, the Kingdom of Heaven is that national entity that is Israelitish
in nature. The Kingdom of Heaven is within the greater and larger universal realm of the Kingdom of God. The Kingdom of Heaven, sometimes referred to as the Kingdom of God in the Gospel accounts, which denotes ownership, was the main topic of our Lord’s teaching and preaching, Matt. 4:17 and 23. The thirteenth chapter of Matthew is totally devoted to our Lord’s teaching and explanation of His Kingdom that He came to possess, redeem and purify. The Israelitish Kingdom established by God in the Old Testament furnishes the structural framework for the whole context of Scripture. This Kingdom was established within the loins of Abraham, began as a physical reality in Isaac and his descendants and finally came to mature fulfillment in King David. There are five component parts to any earthly kingdom which is also true of God’s Kingdom. Those component parts are: people, land, law, throne and king.

Traditionally, the Christian Church has been extremely negligent in teaching and defining the Kingdom of Heaven in its doctrinal tenets of faith. In the mid nineteenth century when the Holy Spirit began to reveal the mystery of the Kingdom to many servants of God, they were misunderstood and sometimes even maligned. Still the Spirit was faithful to reveal this truth to many back then and has continued to reveal it to many in this present day. If the full truth be known, the men listed in this booklet is only a small portion of the multiplied thousands who believed that the true physical descendants of ancient Israel are the Anglo-Saxon, Germanic and related peoples of today. This revelation knows no denominational boundaries. This truth was known and proclaimed by Baptists, Congregational, Christian Church, Methodist, Presbyterian, Church of the Brethren, Pentecostal and Independent ministers and laymen. No doubt many ministers of the past who believed this message left no written record for posterity to read. The biographical information concerning some ministers has been difficult to obtain, so about them, we know very little, yet they have left a written record about their belief. For other ministers, we have much biographical information, yet very little record of their belief. For some, we are fortunate to have both.

Many opponents have unfairly accused the adherents of this truth of being members of a ‘cult.’ Upon proper examination, this body of Christian believers, neither believes, practices or displays any typical signs which are definitive of a cult. The faith and lifestyle of a true Christian believer who accepts the Anglo-Israel message is based solely upon the
infallible Word of God, acknowledges Jesus Christ as the only begotten Son of God, His sacrifice as the only means of man’s salvation and all the verities of New Testament Apostolic faith. The purpose of this booklet is not to set forth the tenets of the Anglo-Israel truth, sometimes referred to as the Gospel of the Kingdom, but to inform the reader of the variety and high caliber of some of the men of God who believed it.

The following is by no means an exhaustive list of ministers who believed and taught the Gospel of the Kingdom, which included the Christian Anglo-Israel message of Scripture. If the full truth be known, the list would consist of multiplied thousands of both ministers and laymen of many different denominations and Christian persuasions who had knowledge of and believed this great truth.

# Ministers at the National Kingdom Convention
Los Angeles - June 1944

## MATTHEW M. ESHELMAN

### INTRODUCTION
by Charles A. Jennings

One of God’s servants who had an ear to hear what the Spirit was saying about the identification of true Israel was Matthew M. Eshelman. He was raised on a farm in the state of Pennsylvania where he was born. After receiving his preliminary education, he pursued his career as a school teacher. After teaching school for a while he became a co-editor of a religious paper called “The Brethren At Work.” This was published for seven years under the auspices of the Dunkard Church at Lanark, Illinois. The paper was previously known as Der Bruderbote, a German language paper. Then it became an English and German paper with the English version called the Brethren’s Messenger. The paper was later moved to Mount Morris, Illinois. Eshelman, with the other two editors continued to edit both the English and German version until 1883. He joined the Cherry Grove Congregation at Virden, Illinois in June, 1873. Soon afterward, he became clerk of the church in 1874. He soon moved his family to Jewell County, Kansas, where they resided for about five years. In the autumn of 1884 Elder Eshelman took charge of the Belleville Church until the end of 1887. During this time, membership greatly increased and a house of worship was built.

He and his family then moved to Republic County, Kansas where he was instrumental in founding a Dunkard College. Eshelman was the secretary of the McPherson College Building Association, whose purpose was to construct and equip the buildings for the McPherson College and Industrial Institute. The charter stated that their purpose was to develop and maintain facilities for the attainment of higher Christian education in keeping with the principles of the Church of the Brethren. Eshelman served as a member of the Board of Trustees for many years.

In 1891, M.M. Eshelman along with George McDonagh, purchased the empty Lord’s Hotel and one hundred city lots in Lordsburg, California for $15,000. In this facility, Lordsburg College which was associated with the Church of the Brethren got its start with 135 students. Attendance greatly increased in subsequent years. The name was eventually changed to the University of La Verne.

M.M. Eshelman was a prominent member and highly respected Elder in the Church of the Brethren until his passing at the age of seventy-six years. He was the father of seven children. He passed away in Los Angeles County after a life of devoted work in the vineyard of the Lord. The Church of the Brethren also included the Dunkards and the German Baptist Church. McPherson College which is still connected with the Church of the Brethren and the University of La Verne are still in existence and have grown to be highly accredited institutions of higher learning.

In 1887 while associated with McPherson College, Elder M. M. Eshelman wrote and published his book, “Two Sticks or the Lost Tribes of Israel Discovered” identifying the Anglo-Saxon and related people as the descendants of the ancient Israelites of the Bible. It was published by the Brethren’s Publishing Company of Mount Morris, Illinois. The following article is an excerpt from his 265 page book which affirms his belief.

>“Two Sticks or the Lost Tribes of Israel Discovered”

During the year 1886 I had the pleasure of becoming acquainted with an octogenarian, by the name of William Montgomery, by birth an Englishman. He called my attention to the Biblical distinction between the “house of Judah” and the “house of Israel,” that the Jews were one class and the Israelites another. This awakened a pleasurable interest in me and immediately I began an investigation of the subject. The deeper I dug, the greater number of precious prophetical gems were cast up; and, being somewhat unselfish, I resolved to scatter them abroad, through the Gospel Messenger, published at Mount Morris, Illinois. This done, an interest was aroused, requiring the remarkable prophetic chambers to be further explored, and the results given in book form.

In accordance with this unselfish desire, I am before you with this volume. It aims to regard the Bible as the Divine unit of the revealed will of God to man, with all of its principles harmoniously related to each other.

That the Anglo-Saxons possess a large number of the qualities ascribed to Israel in her preparatory state, prior to entering the Holy Land, cannot be successfully denied. So numerous are these identities that the mind is unwilling to reject them, or to ascribe them to mere chance. Many of them are here given, with the hope that an increased interest in prophecy may result, to the glory of God and of Him who hath redeemed us. Abstract spiritualism doth blind the sight and blunt the understanding.

In adventure, enterprise and daring, Dan occupies the pre-eminent position among all the tribes of Israel. He was the son of Jacob, by one of his concubines and the first adopted child of Rachel. She named him Dan because she believed that God had judged her. Thus the name Dan and the word judge are synonymous in juridical parlance. In the Gothic, Anglo-Saxon and English languages, the word Dan, under the forms of Don, Dun, Din, has ever carried with it the sense of judge or ruler.

About eighty-five years after the tribes of Israel had settled in Canaan, Dan began to bestir himself; for “in those days the tribe of the Danites sought them an inheritance to dwell in.”–Judges 23:1. The plain reason of this was, that “all their inheritance had not fallen unto them among the tribes of Israel.” At this time they lived along the shores of the Great Sea.

Now Dan, on the old homestead along the sea-coast early took to the sea and became a mariner–Judges 5:17. It is but natural to conclude that, in a period embracing hundreds of years, Dan being well-skilled in nautical affairs, would, when sorely pressed by the kings of Moab, Canaan and Mesopotamia, seek a more genial habitation. Eldad, a Jewish writer, when writing to the Jews in Spain, says: “In Jereboam’s time (B.C. 975), the tribe of Dan, being unwilling to shed their brethren’s blood, took a resolution of leaving their country.”

The increase and perpetuity of Dan have ever asserted themselves wherever they planted their habitations. The histories of the Greeks, the Irish, the English and the Scandinavians are mines of information concerning the characteristics of the Danites, for the impress of their peculiarities are everywhere manifest.

The purport of this lesson is, to teach that the people of Dan along the sea-coast became adventurers in new countries, opened them to settlement and prepared the way for the rise and progress of the other eleven tribes in these latter days. They visited the countries now known as Greece, Italy, Spain, France, Ireland, Denmark and portions of Germany. On the other hand, Dan in Bashan went into captivity with the other tribes of Israel, and when they began their migrations out of Asia into Europe, Dan took the lead.

With the word Dan in its variations and other strong evidence of his pioneering, what shall be the conclusion? In view of God’s promises to Abraham and this array of evidence of Dan’s explorations by the sea and by land, there can be but one conclusion. Long time have historians been stumbling over these evidences, clear as the unclouded skies. Why has this mine of information been so long undiscovered? “Even so, Father for so it seemed good in thy sight.”

The “veil has been kept on all eyes” until the day of Israel’s hiding should be taken away. As Christ’s coming was heralded by many prophets, these all became clearer and more easily understood by the faithful as the day approached, but “the wise” and “the prudent” of this world knew it not.

We have seen that the Ten Tribes, of Israel, went into captivity to Assyria B.C. 725. About 140 years later, Judah was taken captive. During this time the Assyrian empire had gone down, and the Babylonian realm had arisen in its glory. The Israelites were taken to Nineveh and located along the river Gozan. I Chron.5:26.

He said, “the house of Israel rebelled against me,” Ezekiel 20:13. And again, “Son of man, the house of Israel is to me become dross: a ll they are brass, and tin, and iron, and lead in the midst of the furnace; they are even the dross of silver.”–Ezekiel 22:18. Now, what are brass and tin and iron and lead put into the furnace for? Is it not that the dross may be separated from the pure metal? God Himself gives an answer: “Because ye are all become dross, behold, therefore I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem. As they gather silver, and brass and iron, and lead, and tin, into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to melt it; so will I gather you in mine anger and in my fury, and I will leave you there, and melt you.”Ezekiel 22:19, 20. Thus He gave Israel over unto the heathen, that she might be melted, purified, cleansed of her dross, to be molded for the Master’s use. They were to be disciplined into submissiveness. Scores of times in their own country, He endeavored to bring them into the enjoyment of unalloyed and unending bliss by the hand of affliction, and frequently turned their feet into the holy way; but, alas! They soon again wandered after “strange gods.” Now He turned them over into the refiner’s pot for a long season to be scourged, smitten, subdued and made sensible of the exalted state by relationship with Abraham. Israel was then among the heathen in Assyria, and Judah was on her way to serve under the same nation.

These prophetical passages cannot be opened with a denominational key, nor with badly-mixed presumptions. We must use the Divine Record and the events as they come to pass, to obtain the true answer. The movements of God in providence and grace are always with wisdom. Hosea proclaimed coming events sixty years before Israel’s captivity. “And God said unto him, Call her name Lo-ruhamah:” that is, “not having obtained mercy;” but I will utterly take them away. But I will have mercy upon the house of Judah.” Hosea 1:6-7

The other child of Hosea was called Lo-ammi, that is, “not my people;” for “ye are not my people,” yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the ‘sand of the sea, which cannot be measured nor numbered.” In this first chapter of Hosea we see Israel heathenized under a very tangible and practicable figure, their name, religion and nationality completely wiped out, except the gracious promise made to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Having shown the thoroughness of Israel’s punishment for their idiolatry, the prophet next enters the field of their resuscitation and says:’
“It shall be at that day, saith the Lord, that thou shalt call me Ishi (my husband); and shall no more call me Baal, that is my Lord.”–Hosea 2:16

The children of Israel shall abide many days without a king and without a prince, and without a sacrifice, and without an image, and without an ephod and without teraphim. Afterward shall the children of Israel return and seek the Lord their God, and David their king; and shall fear the Lord and his goodness in the latter days.–Hosea 3: 4, 5.

Did not the children of Israel, in their wanderings in Media and Persia and through Europe, abide many days without a king, without an ephod, pillar, sacrifice and teraphim? And in the latter days they are to fear the Lord and His goodness.–Hosea 11:10; 13:14; 14:4-9.

Israel having lost her identity by the removal of the Urim and Thummim, the sacrifice, the ephod, and pillar, she was like the Gentiles; and Paul may have referred to this class in Romans eleven when he says: “Blindness in part has happened to Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in. And so all Israel shall be saved.” He expressly states that “you (gentiles) in times past have not believed God, yet have now obtained mercy through their (Israel’s) unbelief: even so have these (Israelites) also now not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy.” Again he says: “For if the casting away of them be the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiving of them be, but life from the dead” Romans 10:13-16. Just now Israel is emerging from the dead; for the time or period of the Gentiles is nearly completed.

Viewing Romans eleven as referring to Gentile fulness, and lost Israel’s relationship, all becomes clear, and the fogs and mists of unbelief vanish as before the noonday sun.

Behold the awful state of Israel in Assyria! “A rebellious nation,” “impudent children and stiff-necked nation,” and “a waste and a reproach among the nations.” Upon them the Lord sent famine and blood and pestilence and evil beasts and the sword for their iniquity; after which they shall arise in favor and goodwill. “Yet will I leave a remnant, that ye may have some that shall escape the sword among the nations, when ye shall be scattered through the countries”–Ezekiel. 6:8.

Undoubtedly this blessing of Joseph’s two sons and the circumstances attending it, were controlled by a divinely directed hand. Manasseh was to become a great people, and the United States, in our judgment, contains this ‘great people” and the British nation the “multitude of nations”–the modern Ephraim.

It will be noticed that Jacob crossed his arms in blessing Ephraim and Manasseh. This is the sign by which the British conquer – The Union Jack–emblazoned on her national banner. Jacob said, “Let my name (Israel) be named on them, and the name of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac.”

That Ephraim is now arising out of his obscurity, and Manasseh coming forth as a great people, shall now engage much of our attention. The interest in “the lost tribes of Israel” is increasing, and many recognize the American and British nations as these tribes; and if this be correct, then no one can estimate its importance. It would verify the divine Scriptures in seven hundred different ways, and so completely establish the truthfulness of the Bible that unbelief must needs seek shelter among the caves and dens of despair.

“In Isaac shall thy seed be called.”–Gen. 21:12. It is admitted by the most learned Hebrew scholars in the world, that the word “Saxon” means “sons of Isaac.” They follow the old rule of the Hebrew “by dropping the prefix and adding the affix “ones,” or “sons of.”

Ephraim was to become a multitude of nations (Gen. 48:17), or a nation and company of nations–Gen. 35:11. Now Israel must possess these characteristics with many others; and if we can find a nation, or two nations answering to all the requirements of the divine prophecies, then we shall have found “lost Israel.” We must find a people who were taken captive B.C. 725, and transported to Assyria–a people who emerged from that country, from the very spot where Israel was planted, and journey through Europe to the British Isles. If we can find a people from that particular locality in Asia, who have left marks and monuments of their migrations and evidences of their ancestry, moving out into the present world with all the identities of Ancient Israel, then we shall have found the people who were long lost to the intelligence and records of the world.

Again, we must find a people who are great in the Islands, possessing many colonies, immensely wealthy, controlling the strongholds of the sea, a mighty maritime nation, and we shall have found Ephraim or the Ten Tribes of Israel. Then, if we can find “a great people” who have left Ephraim, possessing wealth, liberty, fruitfulness, on an immense continent, making the desert blossom like the rose, joining Ephraim in commerce, in teaching liberty and in giving lessons on arbitration, we shall have found Manasseh.

With this picture upon the wall of intelligence, much of the past becomes clear and luminous, and the future opens up with a grandeur which can only emanate from the regions of unfading glory.

## HENRY WELLINGTON STOUGH, D.D.

He was born in Williams County, Ohio on August 15, 1870. This is where Henry Stough spent most of his early life and received his primary education. He received his name, Henry, from his mother’s father and his middle name, Wellington, in honor of the Duke of Wellington. When a young boy, his family moved to Bryan, Ohio and became affiliated with the Presbyterian Church. His son, Henry W. Stough, Jr, in the biography of his father wrote, “There were protracted meetings, or revivals in the churches during those days, and one night, as William and his son ‘Wellie’ were bedding down the cow for the night, and had finished milking the cow, that the son said to his father, “Father, I’m going to stand tonight and ask for prayer.” In those days, that was all that was expected of one in the Presbyterian Church-just to stand and so confess to the world that one was giving his life to Christ. When‘Wellie’ said this, the father was overjoyed, and putting his arm around his son, he said, “Let us kneel and pray together.” So there in that old farm barn was began a ministry that would take him into most of the states of the Union, and even to foreign lands.”

He attended Oberlin College from 1888-1891. While there he was very active in rescue mission work with drunkards and derelicts leading many of them to Christ. He then became the General Secretary of the Young Men’s Christian Association in East Liverpool, Ohio, which was a full time position. He then transferred to Moody Bible Institute and was there from 1891-1893.

As a young minister Henry Stough was chosen by Dwight L. Moody to preach in the revival tents erected during the World’s Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago. Afterward he attended the Moody Theological Seminary from 1893-1896. He also held the pastorate of the Third Congregational Church of Oak Park, Illinois from 1894-1901. In 1911 Defiance College in Ohio conferred upon him an honorary Doctorate of Divinity degree.

Henry W. Stough married Helen A. Russ on June 23, 1898 in Hyde Park, Illinois and they were blessed with eight children. Three of their five sons became ministers who also believed the Christian Anglo-Israel message of the Bible. His son, Henry W. Stough, Jr. was a very prominent Baptist minister in Knoxville, Tennessee who wrote several books advocating this Biblical point of view. He was the director of two Baptist Associations. Dr. Stough’s other son, Harold E. Stough was for many years associated with the British Israel World Federation in London.

In 1901 he began his full-time evangelistic work with Dr. J. Wilbur Chapman. Dr. Chapman was a prominent Presbyterian minister known as “The Prince of Preachers.” He was instrumental in leading Billy Sunday to Christ. Stough remained in evangelistic work until his death in Savannah, Georgia on October 27, 1939. His body was transported to Illinois and buried in the Wheaton Cemetery.

During his life he held crusades throughout the United States sponsored by groups of churches. Many cities lacking adequate facilities, huge tabernacles were built to accommodate the crowds. The meetings would often last from six to eight weeks. He conducted powerful city wide campaigns in Altoona and Lancaster, Pennsylvania that impacted those cities for God and righteousness. His revival campaign in Evansville, Indiana lasted for seven weeks. In his sixty-two sermons preached during this revival, he openly took a stand against both personal and public sins which made the local liquor traffickers angry. In one city they even brought a lawsuit against him. At one time he had fourteen members in his evangelistic party, which included the well known song leader, D.L. Spooner.

He boldly proclaimed the message of the saving power of Jesus Christ with scores responding to the Gospel call. At Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, where the shops of the Pennsylvania Railroad were located, Dr. Stough received a $500.00 check from the company. The reason was that so many workers had been converted to Christ and had returned thousands of dollars worth of tools that they had previously stolen. Many saloons were closed, gambling and immorality had greatly decreased and the whole city was made aware of the transforming power of Jesus Christ. He even conducted a campaign in Atlantic City, New Jersey with over 6,000 in attendance.

Rev. Stough was highly respected among his ministerial peers and was elected Secretary/Treasurer of the Interdenominational Association of Evangelists. He held this position from 1906 to 1912. The members of the association included Billy Sunday, Milford H. Lyon, W.E. Biederwolf, Bob Jones, Mel Trotter and other prominent evangelists of the day. Among his ministerial acquaintances were such prominent men as Dr. James Gray of the Moody Bible Institute and William Jennings Bryan.

Dr. Stough moved his family to Wheaton, Illinois, the location of the Association. He was trustee of Wheaton College for several years and members of his family attended there. Due to a severe accident of his son Philip in 1922 and his son Harold having double pneumonia, Dr. Stough entered an extended and deep study into the doctrine of divine healing. After his own healing, he began preaching the Gospel of ‘The Healing Christ’ in his meetings. He also began to preach many sermons on the prophetic events of the time. It was not long until he became friends with F. F. and B.B. Bosworth. Many people testified to being divinely healed and even delivered from demonic possession.

More and more the matter of prophecy and prophecy- fulfilled was studied which led Dr. Stough to believe in the Anglo-Israel message which identifies the Anglo-Saxon-Celtic- Scandinavian people as the literal descendants of ancient Israel. He was a very strong advocate of that truth and the Gospel of the Kingdom of God. In 1932, in Knoxville, Tennessee, he held a sixteen week meeting proclaiming this message and establishing a permanent Gospel work in the city.

He authored several books on various religious subjects which includes: Faith and Prayer in Their Conflicts With Unbelief, The Three-fold Resurrection, The Great Seal of the United States and many more.

## WARREN BRUCE (W.B.) RECORD - 1886-1971 (circa)

W.B. Record received his ministerial training at Northwestern Bible College in Seattle, Washington and was affiliated with the
Presbyterian Church. He was the founder of the National Message Ministry. He had a radio program on a Los Angeles, California radio station on which he preached the Christian Anglo-Israel message. His radio career began in 1938 and continued until shortly before his death. His son, ROBERT RECORD (1910-2005) was ordained into the ministry in the First Baptist Church of Rochester, Minnesota in 1936. For many years Robert Record shared the responsibilities of the radio ministry with his father and continued for many years after his father’s death. Between the father and son, they had a continuous radio ministry proclaiming the Kingdom/Covenant message of the Bible for sixty-one years.

During his residence and ministry in the Minneapolis, Minnesota area in the 1940's, W. B. Record became friends with Evangelist Grady Wilson. Grady Wilson has been a close associate with Evangelist Billy Graham since their younger years in Charlotte, North Carolina. Both Wilson and Graham made their profession of faith in Christ under the ministry of Dr. M.F. Ham during the Charlotte Crusade in 1935. W.B. Record told Pastor Robert Woodworth that he had several conversations with Grady Wilson concerning Zionism and the Anglo-Israel message. Wilson confessed that both he and Evangelist Graham were aware of the Zionist movement and also believed the Anglo-Israel message, but felt that they could not afford to preach it because of their world-wide evangelistic efforts. Through the efforts of W.B. Record and other ministers was founded the National Association of Kingdom Evangelicals which was headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

## CLEM DAVIES, D.D.

He was born in 1890 of Welsh ancestry. As a young man he was the pastor of Centennial Methodist Church in Victoria, Vancouver Island, B.C., Canada. While there, he had a very aggressive outreach ministry by utilizing every possible means including a 500 watt Marconi radio transmitter in order to spread the Gospel. In 1925 he resigned this pastorate and moved to southern California. There he continued his ministry by public preaching, radio and by printed publications. For many years he held weekly meetings in the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. In his book, The Racial Streams of Mankind (1946), he clearly sets forth the Biblical foundation for his belief in the fact that the Anglo-Saxon and related peoples are the literal descendants of the ancient Israelites. For many years he published a paper called, “Timely Topics” in which he dealt with prophetic and current events until his death in 1951. Below is the conclusion of one of his radio sermons.

“Hence it is in this great group of nations having the name of Isaac that we must look for the fulfillment of the prophecies of the Bible at the time of the end – the great striking utterances concerning Israel. That is the value of this Anglo-Israel teaching – and you will have seventy-five per cent more Bible if you understand this message- and thus do not confine ‘Israel’ to one small part of it, the ‘remnant’ (as the Bible puts it) of the tribe of Judah that have survived the persecutions of the Jews throughout the centuries – numbering today only about 9 millions throughout the world – and certainly not numerous enough to fulfill the prophecies concerning Israel. If you will just have patience you will eventually see this wonderful truth – as many of us have already seen it. It was one of the greatest joys of my life when I saw the light of this truth, and it has stimulated my ministry – helped me to be a winner of souls for Christ. It has stimulated my desire to win souls to the Lord Jesus Christ that they may be saved. It has given me a great love for America and Britain–not only from the standpoint of patriotism, but dignifying that patriotism in a deeper spiritual sense, because I know that these nations are of the seed of Israel, and as such are being used by the Almighty to work out His purposes on the earth. I’ve always recognized that salvation was free to all, regardless of nationality, and we do not preach salvation by race but salvation by grace, the grace of God through Christ’s atonement on the Cross of Calvary, but I find it much easier to understand my Bible when I realize that God’s purposes for the world are being wrought out through the instrumentality and the destiny of the Anglo-Isaac-Israel people, with their kith and kin throughout the world.”

## LINCOLN McCONNELL, D.D. LL.D.

Among many characteristics of Lincoln McConnell, he possessed a very influential and charismatic personality. He grew up with a leadership ability that he expressed throughout his life. He was born the son of a Tennessee lawyer and was trained early in the study of Law. After spending some time out west after college he moved to Atlanta, Georgia. He became a member of the Atlanta police force, then he became a detective and later served as assistant to the solicitor in criminal court. While a member of the Atlanta police force he was converted to Christ and immediately began to get involved in ministry to the down and out of the city. He was influential in starting a rescue mission in Atlanta. He also served as pastor of the downtown People’s Church of Atlanta and attracted an audience of 2,000 people which came to hear him. From April 1927 to February 1929 he was the pastor of First Baptist Church of St. Petersburg, Florida. This 4,000 seat capacity church was full each Sunday as the people of the city were anxious to hear this powerful man of God. He then pastored the First Baptist Church of Jacksonville, Florida from 1929-1930. At the time this church had a membership of 2,162. Many of his Sunday sermons were broadcast on radio and heard by millions of Americans. He was also a popular speaker in large conferences throughout the country.

In a twelve year period, he made over 8,000 public speeches and was considered to be one of the most humourous, dynamic and effective speakers of his day. As an avid believer in the Anglo-Israel message he responded in a letter to an inquiry by saying; “. . .I must say that if you really want to know your Bible you will have to get the books on “Anglo-Israel”...you will never know the real truth the book is teaching without this key.” The following article is a part of his speech that he gave before an annual meeting of the British Israel World Federation in London, England in 1928.

“I am exceedingly glad that I have had the opportunity of staying these two days at this Congress, and I greatly regret that the pressure of my engagements, and the calls for my presence in Florida, my home, make it virtually impossible for me to delay sailing after tomorrow. I am a speaker at several Conventions in the States, and I cannot possibly defer my departure longer. If it had been a personal matter merely, or a matter concerning my own congregation–though I have been away for three months, and they are extremely loving folk–at the same time I might have put off my departure for another week. But before I say what I want to say, I want to express my high appreciation of the splendid spirit I have found among you beloved folk. Naturally I expected to find cordial people in England. I have known a great many of your illustrious platform and ministerial men, as well as quite a good many other public men who have come to the States in my long platform experience, and I naturally have met a great many of them. But I have been more than delighted to find the heart and the brain and the faith of these British-Israel leaders at Headquarters are so nearly balanced that I hardly know which is the better.

I have been thinking a great deal, and naturally lately, as I have thought for many years in a cursory manner, of the marvelous providence of God in directing the affairs of our twin nations. No one can look at the British-Israel teaching without taking a long view of the plan of God for the race of man. It has been a matter of great interest to me to read British history. You have had so many kings, and we folks have to remember which did that and which did this. Therefore I do not claim to be very well versed in English history, only in just a very casual way. But I know something of your struggles. And some of us in America believe that it was the providence of God that kept the United States, our American Continent, from being colonized. It was not until this Bible was permitted to do its work that God permitted the people to successfully colonize in the United States. And God selected families who went there to found that new Republic that He had in His mind.

Now we who understand something of the American Constitutional law know this, that there are three great ideas underlying our Constitution. I was asked by several Bar Associations a few years ago to address them on something appertaining to the Constitution and I chose for my subject, “Back to the Constitution.” A good many people wondered why our fathers could get together and in a few weeks and months formulate doctrines that the greatest economists of England, and that means of the world, describe as one of the greatest documents from the hand of uninspired man. That has been the pronouncement of several of your greatest Englishmen in regard to that document known as the Constitution of the United States, that a people so primitive, without the background of a long Governmental history, could formulate a document like that, a structure that could be as abiding, and as well qualified as it has proved itself to be, of sustaining the weight of the gigantic United States, that has been built upon the foundation first laid for an infant nation. For when the Constitution was born there was only a population of 3 million; now there are 110 million, and it supports it today quite as well as it did then.

You have been developed because you had the germ of the thing back yonder in the Common Law. Our forefathers believed that the highest intelligence possessed by people would be found in the majority of that people, and therefore, the best laws that might be evolved would be those laws that emanated from the best brains selected from all sections of the country, and that would represent the highest intelligence of the democracy. There was a complete submission to the reign of law. Where did we get that idea? We got it from the grandest nation under God’s sun, the nation that was born a people under the Common Law of Almighty God, the Law of Israel. That is how it happened. A good many of our younger men do not understand our kinship, but admire and appreciate the old English Common Law, and they know the draw and pull, and how to proceed to get their case somehow.

When men leave God out, when men leave part of God’s plan out, when men try to build the structure of a Church, or a great civilization, cutting out the major part of the plans of the Architect of the building, they need not complain if the building that they erect is not as beautiful and as abiding as they would have hoped it to be. God Almighty had a plan for the building of Great Britain and America, and just in proportion as we folk harmonize with God’s plan will the building be erected speedily, soundly, firmly and beautifully. There is no getting away from that. And the British-Israel Movement and its teaching is nothing more or less than the flooding of Biblical light penetrating into the dark recesses of social and political and industrial conditions in both our countries, which will be a marvellous luminant, explaining these things to the people of our twin nations, if they will only be willing to see them as such.

If you good folk are not going as deeply into British-Israel Truth as you might go, then let me urge you to go as deeply as you can go. Do not allow yourselves to be repelled. It is true, and your disbelieving of it will not affect its operation; it is going straight on. I want to be with God on this matter. I would rather believe too much about God’s power than believe too little. It gives me a great deal of joy and comfort in my soul to believe in a personal God, One who is personally interested in Lincoln McConnell.

I thank God for the revelation of One Who cares, and not only a God Who cares for us individually, but a God Who had planned a mighty movement, not only of the planets, but of mankind on this planet. I thank God that there are a God-loving, and a Bible believing and a consecrated body of people in this great throbbing heart of the world who dare to teach that, and to preach that.

## GEORGE B. PECK, M.D.

In his book entitled, “All Israel Restored” Frank S. Murray comments concerning Dr. Peck’s belief in the Anglo-Israel Truth.

“In God’s providence one good and godly man did appear at about this time to reinforce Mr. Sandford’s feelings about Anglo-Israel. His name was Rev. George B. Peck, who was also a medical doctor, a friend of A. B. Simpson and one of Mr. Sandford’s enthusiastic co-operators in the first years of his work. Dr. Peck not only assisted Mrs. Sandford on the occasion of her first confinement for childbirth, but was instrumental in many instances of anointing for healing in the early Shiloh conventions. He was also an intent student of the Bible, and had found a divine fitness in the Anglo-Israel explanation of the otherwise mystifying promises made to the covenant fathers. When Mr. Sandford had listened to this man, who had no connection whatever with Totten, it was clear to him that God had provided two witnesses to this line of truth.”

Dr. Peck (1833-1906) was a personal friend with A.B. Simpson who was the founder and president of the Christian and Missionary Alliance Church which is still in existence today. They even traveled together in ministry, conducting evangelistic campaigns and praying for the sick and suffering. While in attendance during the 1906 annual Christian and Missionary Alliance Convention held in the Berkeley Temple in Boston, Dr. Peck passed away. His funeral service was held in the Clarendon Street Baptist Church with several distinguished ministers eulogizing his life of faith and service to the Lord and his fellow man. As a prominent member of the Christian Missionary and Alliance, an article of his death appeared in the church’s official paper.

## J.O. SCHAAP

According to Ernestine Young, a personal friend of Pastor J.O. Schaap, he and his wife Grace, moved from Minnesota to Idaho in the early 1940's. While in Minnesota, it is believed that he was connected with Luke Rader of Minneapolis. While holding ministerial credentials with the Church of the Nazarene, he began to preach the Anglo-Israel message and as a result was excommunicated from the denomination. He was the founder of Five Mile Community Church located on the west side of Boise, which still remains after more than fifty years. Pastor and Mrs. Schaap are remembered as gracious and loving servants of the Lord who encouraged family prayer and a life of strong commitment to the cause of Christ. He passed away in 1959 due to a severe heart condition. His wife, Grace, who died in 1988, was inspired to write over one hundred choruses of worship and consecration such as:

>Oh Israel, come back to Jesus; Your Bridegroom now is calling thee
>Repent of all thy vast transgressions; And you will find your nation free.

It is also reported that in 1934 two laymen of the Nampa, Idaho Nazarene Church taught the Anglo-Israel message. Mr. Hillborn and Mr. Milligan taught this message for six months in the church until a new District Superintendent took office. According to Esther Young, the mother of Ernestine, Howard Rand, the director of the Anglo-Saxon Federation of America spoke in the Nazarene College of Nampa, Idaho in 1935 with two thousand people in attendance.

## JAY C. KELLOGG

One of the most illustrious characters in the history of American evangelism was J. C. Kellogg. He was known as “The Cowboy Evangelist.” He often dressed in western style clothing, including his hat, during his evangelistic meetings. His ministry was known as the Whole Gospel Crusaders of America. He ministered in some of the largest churches of America including the Chicago Gospel Tabernacle, pastored by Paul D. Rader. He authored several books including; The Brand of Hell - 666, The Midnight Cry, The Mark of Cain, The United States of Europe and Is Capitalism Doomed? The following article is an excerpt from his book copyrighted in 1932 entitled, The United States in Prophecy. In this book, he shows from Scripture the part he believes that America and the Anglo-Saxon people play in Bible prophecy.

## Isaiah’s Vision of America

There is clear and infallible proof that the Holy Spirit gave to the prophet Isaiah a vision of America as existing and playing a conspicuous part in the providence of God among the nations of the earth in the last days. In the very nature of things it is reasonable to suppose that a nation of the magnitude and power and service of the United States should occupy a place in divine prophecy. When we consider the origin of this nation, and the fact of its being born of religious principle, the work it has done in the providence of God, and the work it has yet to perform, we need not be surprised to find that these things were foretold by the Holy Spirit in connection with this prophecy.

## Nations in the Last Days Prophecy

The prophet Isaiah was led to deliver a series of prophecies concerning various nations as to events that would transpire in the last days. In chapter 13 he delivers a prophecy concerning Babylon on the east; in chapter 15 a prophecy concerning Moab on the southeast of Jerusalem; then in chapter 17 he delivers a prophecy concerning Egypt; in chapter 21 a prophecy about Media, and in chapter 23 a prophecy concerning Tyre, making, as it were a circle of nations; and right in the midst of this circle, in chapter 18, he delivers a prophecy concerning a country which at that time had no name. Now it is evident that this prophecy in chapter 18 forms a part of this great message concerning the nations of the earth in the last days. Let me
call your attention to the marvelous items mentioned in this chapter and see how infallibly they refer to our American nation.

## The United States in Prophecy

In the prophet’s vision he saw a nation arise far in the west, of wonderful power and service, but which had no name. He called it, “The land of outstretched wings,” which is a more correct translation than in the Authorized Version. It was by divine providence that the eagle was selected as the emblem of the United Sates as a nation, but there was a deeper truth hidden under the emblem, and that was that America, in the providence of God, should be a land that would serve as a refuge to all other nations of the earth. Since the world began there never had been any other country that from its beginning offered a welcome and a hospitality to all other people for the purpose of giving them religious and civil liberty except America.

## The Anglo-Saxon and Saxon Nations

Who are the Anglo-Saxon people? From whence do they come? Surely God’s hand has been with the Saxon people in a remarkable way, especially the Anglo-Saxon. The Anglo-Saxon and the Saxon nations are a branch of the Caucasian race-the white race. The Anglo-Saxons have always embraced Christianity more generally than any other people. Have always believed in law and order in government and have contributed more to society. Now it seems that God has His hand with the Anglo-Saxon people in a peculiar way. The Anglo-Saxon believe in religious liberty and freedom and, as a whole, are Protestant. It is a known fact that down through history ninety-five per cent of all foreign missionaries have been Anglo-Saxon, and how do you account for that except that God has His hand upon the Anglo-Saxon people in a peculiar way?

## The Origin of the Anglo-Saxon People

From whence came the original Anglo-Saxon people? There is much evidence that the two great Anglo-Saxon peoples, Great Britain and the United States of America, are descendants of the two sons of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim. That is, the fulfillment of many prophecies and promises that were given to these two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim, are falling upon America and Britain today. Many prophecies have a three and four fold application; they are given to the people at the time and have to do directly with them. There is the spiritual application down through the ages, a dispensational application and often a national application to the different nations as they walk with God.

## WILLIAM MARION GROOM D.D.

Other than the date and the place of his birth, nothing else is known of the life of William Groom before he emigrated to America. He was born in Erith, Kent, England in 1884. There he received his elementary secular education. It is believed that he first went to Canada for a brief period of time before moving to Texas. In 1912 he entered Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Fort Worth where he earned a Master of Theology degree. During his time in Seminary, he was connected with several Baptist churches in the area. Not long after graduation from Seminary in 1915 he married Lorena M. Ford from Arkansas. Two children were born to this union.

William Groom’s first pastorate was the First Baptist Church of Haskell, Texas from April 7, 1915 to October 9, 1917. By September 1915 the attendance had increased to the extent that it was necessary to construct a new building. The new church sanctuary would seat 400 people. He also served as pastor at the First Baptist Church in Corpus Christi, August 15, 1920 to November 30, 1924; Ross Avenue Baptist Church in Dallas, December 1, 1925 to January 1, 1931. He also served Central Baptist and Oak Lawn Baptist Churches in Dallas.

While pastoring in Corpus Christi, William Groom was very instrumental for the Southern Baptist Convention in advocating the Baptist Hospital to be constructed in the Texas Valley. Due to Mrs. Groom’s sickness, the family was forced to move to Minneapolis where he became engaged in the hotel business. In 1941, Mrs. Groom accepted employment at the Northern Baptist Theological Seminary and eventually became Dean of Women until the early 1950's. For the last several years of his life William Groom lived in the Los Angeles, California area until his death on April 6, 1957.

He was the author of several books which include: The Genesis to Revelation Bible Course; Bible Men and Things with their Gospel Meanings; and Greatest Bible Doctrines Explained. In 1934 he published a book entitled Bible Proof That America is God’s Chosen Nation in which he clearly advocated the Anglo-Israel message of Scripture. The text below are excerpts from William Groom’s statements concerning the promises of God fulfilled in the British and American nations.

## Bible Proof That America is God’s Chosen Nation

In almost every country of the civilized world multitudes have come to believe that the Anglo-Saxon peoples are descended from the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel. Theologians and ministers, statesmen and educators, army officers and business men, are all awaking to the thrilling fact that America and the British Commonwealth of Nations are God’s chosen people. Of course, this mighty truth is stirring up opposition in some quarters, for the blindness that is upon Israel as to her identity will not be removed by miracles, but only by the earnest study of receptive minds.

God said to Abraham in Gen. 21:12, “In Isaac shall thy seed be called.” Not in Ishmael, not in the sons of Keturah, but the chosen people should be of the line of Isaac only. What revelations, miracles and training God gave to His elect race in the wilderness! There they received the Moral, Ceremonial and Civil Laws, upon which the life of Israel and all of the Anglo-Saxon world has been based. There the Tabernacle was erected, public worship was instituted, and the Sabbath was made a sign of the covenant. Contrast Israel at the time with the miserable autocracy, slavery, and heathenism of other nations like Egypt and Assyria. This vivid contrast holds good today between God-fearing, law-keeping, Sabbath-observing modern Israel, and the atheistic, oppressing Gentile nations.

About 1799 A.D. the Seven Times or 2520 years of national discipline and blindness meted out to Israel, as spoken of in Lev. 26:34, expired, and then began the most wonderful era for the Anglo-Saxon race that any race has ever seen. At the beginning of the nineteenth century, the United States had a population of four millions which has now grown to 132 million, until we with Britain comprise one-third of the population of the world, and one-fourth of all the earth’s surface.

The development of this country is one of the miracles of all history. When you look at the nation’s wide-spreading farms and ranches, her gigantic industries, her colossal cities and sky-scrapers, her magnificent institutions of learning, art and of science, her multiplied number of majestic churches and benevolent philanthropic agencies, we are led gratefully to exclaim with our great forefathers in Deut. 33:29, “Happy art thou, O Israel, who is like unto thee, O people saved by the Lord.”

Christ twice referred to the “lost sheep of the House of Israel” (Matt. 10:6, 15:24). He does not mean lost spiritually, but lost nationally, otherwise the conclusion would be that Israel only was lost in sin while the Jews and the Gentiles are not. On the contrary it is true that only Israel was lost to her national identity while the Jews and the Gentiles were not. Many of the Epistles were addressed to Israel. Not but the Israelite, Jew, and Gentile are all one in Christ and in the Church, but the Israel nations, as nations have birthright blessings and are elected to certain privileges and service.

In Rom. 9:31 Israel under the law, which was Judah, is contrasted with the children of the living God, in Rom. 9:26, which is a quotation from Hosea 1:10 and shows that the Ten-tribed Kingdom is in view. The Galatians were part of Israel in dispersion and were not converted from Judaism, but from heathenism, into which the stock had lapsed. There is strong evidence that Hebrews was written to Israel, and James wrote to the Twelve Tribes, and not to the Two Tribes into which the others had been absorbed as some suppose. Peter in 2:9, 10 has the divorced Israel of Hosea in mind as having now become again the people of God. Much more New Testament evidence might be given to show that although Israel was very much dispersed yet it did not pass off the stage of history, and the birthright was not taken from them.

When, after teaching and training the twelve disciples, Jesus sent them forth to their labors, He commanded them, “Preach the Kingdom of God” (Luke 9:60), and when the Twelve returned, and multitudes had gathered about Him, He spoke to them of the Kingdom of God. When He sent out the Seventy evangelists He instructed them to say to the people, “The Kingdom of God is come nigh unto you” (Luke 10:9-11). After Jesus had risen from the dead, He spoke to them the things concerning the Kingdom of God (Acts 1:3). When the apostles asked him, “Dost thou at this time restore again the Kingdom of Israel? (Acts 1:6). He did not rebuke them for wanting the Davidic Kingdom restored to Palestine, but only told them it was not for them to know the times and seasons of such restoration.

Not only did our Lord not discourage Kingdom preaching and hopes, but He made them the main subjects of His preaching, and taught us to definitely pray, “thy Kingdom come” (Matt. 6:10). In the very last picture that we have of the Apostle Paul, he was a prisoner in Rome, and he was not using the popular themes so common today, but he, “Expounded and testified, and preached the Kingdom of God” (Acts 28:23, 31). Surely it is time for us to awaken to the fact that nine-tenths of the New Testament preaching was about the setting upon the earth of a kingdom of peace, prosperity, and righteousness.

It is a well known fact that every great doctrine presents some difficulties to those who would accept it. For instance there are the doctrines of the Trinity, election, and the eternal punishment of the wicked, etc.; and some of the most devout Christians have seen insurmountable difficulties in accepting the orthodox teachings on these profound subjects. It therefore will be readily understood that there will be many sincere objections raised to the thesis that the Anglo-Saxons are the lost Ten Tribes of Israel. Earnest seekers after truth have carefully and prayerfully examined these spectres of the mind and laid them low, until today, not only some of the most scholarly preachers, but great thinkers in every walk of life, have unreservedly accepted Israel truth. This world-wide galaxy of adherents, ten million strong, includes college professors, statesmen, authors, army and navy officers, lawyers and business men, so there is no need for anyone to think that this is just a hole-in-the-corner fad, but rather with assurance we should be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asketh a reason for the hope that is in us.

It is perfectly legitimate to ask what is the good of the Anglo-Israel doctrine, and what does it matter whether we are Abraham’s seed or not. Since, we are assured, Christ is the Savior of all who believe, therefore He is our Savior, what more should we want? Now we gladly concede that this is true and more. That salvation is not only offered to all mankind, but that a kind Heavenly Father makes the sun to shine on the just and the unjust, and yet it can be proved that it is an assuredly blessed thing to be the children of Abraham by race as well as by grace!

1. It proves the truth and inspiration of the Scriptures.
2. It teaches us to look to God for bodily necessities.
3. It will be the cure for international unrest.
4. It will do away with Social injustice.
5. It would solve the crime problem.
6. It will give assurance as to our nation’s future security.
7. It will lead to great revivals all over the land.

Since one fourth of the Bible is prophetic and five sixths of it is addressed to God’s nation, Israel, any system of Bible teaching that ignores prophecy and kingdom truth, or spiritualizes it is incomplete and misleading. While many think it is fanatical to really try to understand prophecy, yet it is much better to be such a crank than an ignoramus and a coward. No one would wish to be operated on by a doctor who knows as little about surgery as the average preacher know about prophecy. That the world today is awakening to a sense of its obligation to Israel, is seen from the amazing output of literature on the subject, and from the fact that in every civilized country large numbers are accepting the Israel message. If the question were asked, what was the greatest discovery of the last century, there would be varied answers. Yet the day will come when all will agree that the crowning glory of the twentieth century was the discovery that the Anglo-Saxons are the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel, and of what has gone with it, the re-discovery of the Old Testament.

It is an amazing thing that God has in this world a lost people, and a lost Testament, and that most of the seers do not even know that they have been lost. Yet most preachers neither preach nor teach the Old Testament as a whole, and those who do usually spiritualize its real teachings away. The Old Testament actually represents 1500 years of divinely given laws, worship and prophecies, that were to make Israel an ideally righteous nation for all other nations to emulate. What then must be the incalculable loss that it has been so grossly neglected or misunderstood!

## DETROIT BELIEVERS

Taken from the book entitled, “Lives Of The Saints” - Early History of Christian-Israel Belief in Detroit by J.S. Brooks

DANIEL J. SMITH - Evangelist Daniel J. Smith was not an ordained minister, but wherever he went, the Gospel of the Kingdom and National message of the Bible went with him. He faithfully proclaimed Bible truths to all who would listen; so that he was known to neighbors as, “the local preacher.”

Daniel led a fascinating, varied life. In 1871 he opened up a dry goods shop with an associate as “Smith and Tenney,” at #453 - 7th Street in Detroit, Michigan. Six years later, in 1878, he opened a larger dry goods store himself at 433 - 435 Grand River Avenue, one of the major thoroughfares through the city. In those days, most food stuffs were sold in a semi raw state, bagged in large burlap sacks and called, “dry goods.” Not satisfied with that career, however, in late 1880 he moved to 122 Cass Avenue in downtown Detroit and briefly tried his hand at real estate; and then five years later opened shop as a photographer at 212 Woodward Avenue. Daniel was tremendously fascinated with new technology, and photography was a rapidly expanding invention. His photography studio was one of the first companies in Detroit to have telephone service, and the business grew with two partners in 1890 to become the firm of “Galloway, Butterfield and Smith.”

But God’s Word was his main interest. In 1881, the book, “Anglo-Israel in Nine Lectures” by Dr. W. H. Poole, reprinted a letter by Daniel Smith. The letter told how Smith had first learned the great and little known truths of Scripture several years earlier from Dr. Poole, and said in part, “When our people come into a full realization of the worth of this...and the truth it reveals, it will be like a flood of light from on high, for I consider in value it stands in close proximity to that of the gift of the Bible itself, for it is in the direct line of an explanation and corroboration of the revealed truth; and without it, there cannot be a correct and, consequently, an intelligent understanding or a proper interpretation of the sacred books; but with it, the difficulties of prophecy and of many historical allusions vanish like dew in the sunshine.”

“I am aware that many men, in other things wise men, have said these things were not, could not be, true; but I have thus far in every case found that, like myself (before I had given the matter the thought it demands) they had spoken unadvisedly with their lips. And I find, too, that in every case when men of intelligence and candor open their minds and hearts to the truth, and obtain a clear conception of its value, and of the beauty of the Divine plan, they must and do acknowledge themselves convinced; even though, as one good brother said to me, ‘If I teach this thing I will be obliged to rearrange most of my sermons.’

“All hail the glad day when the Christian world, enlightened and convinced by the truth, shall arise and give light that shall lighten the Gentiles, and fill the world with the knowledge and the glory of God, and when this world shall know that Israel, whom God hath exalted chief among the nations, is the seed that the Lord hath blessed...I believe that when these truths are fully known and accepted, that infidelity, with its last proof swept away, will slink away before the light and hide its deformity forever, and the millennial glory will speedily spread its joy and gladness over all the earth to the glory of our God and His Christ.”

## DR. JOHN WELLINGTON HOAG

One of the leading churches in Detroit for many years was Woodward Avenue Baptist Church. It was founded in 1860 as an offshoot of the oldest Baptist congregation in the city, and was the first Detroit church to have electric lighting installed in 1890. The authoritative “History of Detroit” by Silas Farmer states, “The church, which is built of Ionia stone, is deemed the handsomest in the city.” (p. 608)

In 1915, the church called the noted Dr. John Wellington Hoag to pastor. During his leadership, at the time of the first world war, the church became the largest congregation in the state of Michigan, with 3,500 members. Hoag was pastor for a total of 32 years until his death in 1947, and often had Anglo-Israel leaders such as Dr. Howard B. Rand and William J. Cameron as his guest in the pulpit. Cameron was vice president of the Ford Motor Company, and a close friend of the inventor, Henry Ford. How and when Dr. Hoag came to a knowledge of the Christian Israel truth has not survived, but his belief is believed to have dated back to at least the World War I era.

Dr. Hoag was one of the most respected leaders in the City of Detroit. In 1926, an anthology was published, “entitled, “Preachers and Preaching in Detroit,” which gave him a prominent place. His biography states in part, “Dr. Hoag was born in Canada, but has spent most of his life in the United States. Lansing, Michigan, was his boyhood home, and Kalamazoo College his Alma Mater, being graduated there in 1900. His theological training was received at the Divinity School of Chicago University. Opening his ministry in the First Baptist Church in Trenton, New Jersey and the Calvary Baptist Church of New Haven, Connecticut. Woodward Avenue Baptist Church where Dr. Hoag is now located is one of the great preaching centers of America. The church membership is approximately 3,500, and the constituency of the church is exceedingly large. It is an evangelistic center with one of the largest Sunday night congregations in the city; and the sane, challenging, and uplifting sermons of this genial prophet of God has made this possible...such conspicuous service in the heart of Detroit is a record upon which we all look with admiration and respect. Many affirm that Dr. Hoag and his associate, Samuel Meyers, formed the best evangelistic team now in the active pastorate.” Yes, Dr. Hoag’s emphasis was on evangelism reaching others with the Word of God and its message for today. He stated, “Men are called to be saved – and to be saviors. What can the master say if we fail of our very reason for being saved, and we come home at the end of our season of harvesting without any sheaves for the heavenly garner? Jesus was constantly calling. He preached to the vast multitude; He talked with the individual; He went into the temple and synagogue; He went out to the streets, the markets, the lanes calling men to come after Him...we are stewards of the mystery of God. Take my voice and let me speak ever only for my King.”

Dr. Hoag died suddenly of a heart attack in 1947 after a long ministry of 32 years at Woodward Baptist Church. He was succeeded finally by Pastor William J. Washer, who also proclaimed the Israel truth from the pulpit for another quarter of a century.

## HOWARD B. RAND

Without question, the most fertile writer on the Anglo-Israel truth was the great lawyer and theologian, Dr. Howard Benjamin Rand. This man of God was born in Haverhill, Massachusetts, June 13, 1889. He married Hazel Gertrude Smith in 1913. He died on August 17, 1991 at the very advanced age of 102 years, and was in Christian service up to the very last. Rand graduated from the University of Maine in 1912, where he received the LL.B degree and was a member of Phi Alpha Delta. He passed the bar in Maine and Massachusetts, and served in the Maine National Guard during the great Bangor fire. He was an avid outdoor horseman in his youth and a gifted artist. An inventor, he held many patents, including the electric incandescent lamp in 1916, and the automobile headlamp socket. He held patents in the United States, Great Britain, Australia and France.

Rand, for several years maintained an office in London, England and loved to relate how his window overlooked Buckingham Palace, where he would see the present Queen Elizabeth II as a child playing outdoors. He authored many theological studies, including Digest of Divine Law, Primogenesis, Study in Revelation, Study in Hosea, Study in Daniel, as well as many other books and pamphlets. In July 1997, “Bibliotheca Sacra” magazine published by Dallas Theological Seminary, gave a favorable review of Rand’s teaching concerning the two witnesses of the Book of Revelation.

During the 1930's, Rand moved to Detroit, opening an office on the sixth floor of the Fox building. This was located nearly across the street from Woodward Baptist Church, where Dr. Hoag was pastoring, and in the neighborhood of several other historic churches as well. Because of these famous churches in the area, it became known as the “Piety Hill” section of Detroit. During this time he toured the United States, Canada and Great Britain lecturing before thousands of people concerning the Anglo-Israel truth. He was the publisher of Destiny Magazine from 1937 to 1968, but continued to write his Destiny Editorial Letter Service until shortly before his death.

## OTHER DETROIT CHURCHES

Other historic Detroit churches where the Anglo-Israel truth was heard in the past include old Trinity Reformed Episcopal Church, where Dr. William Henry Poole also pastored. Mariner’s Church, a beautiful English Gothic cathedral, downtown near the City-County building, was pastored during the 1930's by Rev. Robert Randall, who was active in the Anglo Saxon Federation of America. Well known downtown landmark, Fort Street Presbyterian Church, where famous theologian Dr. Edward Hart Pence pastored between the years 1900-1938, had frequent Anglo-Israel guests in the pulpit. Early downtown landmark, Central Presbyterian Church, now torn down and replaced by a bank building, had been pastored by Hugh Jack, a frequent early feature writer for Destiny Magazine. Detroit’s First Church of the Nazarene, known as ‘The Big Nazarene Tabernacle,’ hosted the Anglo Saxon Federation of America National Convention in 1930. These are just a few of the many churches of many denominations, whose pulpits were filled by men with an understanding of the Bible Covenants and their fulfillment in the world today.

## HONEST CONFESSIONS

There have been wonderful men of God that were not believers in the Anglo-Israel truth, but were not hostile to it or those that did believe it. Throughout the years some of these men were personal friends with prominent proponents of this truth. Some even worked together in ministry or shared their church pulpit. The following are just a few examples of honest confessions of reputable ministers concerning the Anglo-Israel truth and those who believed it.

## THOMAS T. SHIELDS, D.D.

Dr. Shields was pastor of the well known historic Jarvis Street Church in Toronto, Ontario. His sermons were published in the Gospel Witness and Protestant Advocate, a weekly paper that was circulated throughout the world. During his sixty year ministry, he held pastorates in historic churches in London, was Vice-Chairman of the Home Missions Board of the Baptist Convention of Ontario and Quebec, President of the Baptist Union of North America and Vice-President of the International Council of Christian Churches. In his sermon “Who and Where are the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel?” published posthumously in the December 10, 1959 issue of the Church paper, he made the following statement. “Where are the Ten Tribes now? Are they in Britain? Is Manasseh in the United States? I will not quarrel with my British Israelite friends. I am not a British Israelite, but, as an interpretation of British history, I have no quarrel with it. I know some of you ardent premillennialists hold up your hands in horror, and cry, “Heresy.” Not at all. Some of the noblest and soundest preachers in this earth today accept that. The great Dr. Dinsdale T. Young, than whom there is none truer to the great verities of evangelical faith, accepts that theory. He insists upon regeneration in order to have salvation, upon the blood atonement. He preached very much as Spurgeon himself preached. I would judge of a man’s orthodoxy by his attitude toward the central truth of the deity of Christ, His atoning sacrifice, the necessity of the new birth, the resurrection from the dead. . . . I rather suspect that some of you are part of the Ten Tribes.”

## CHRISTIAN AND MISSIONARY ALLIANCE

In the official paper of the Christian and Missionary Alliance Church dated September 7, 1894, the editor gives this congenial answer to a reader’s question.

“Query: Do you believe in the Anglo-Israel theory, or is it accepted by the Christian Alliance? Answer: We do not believe the theory, but some excellent members of the Christian Alliance, we believe, do hold to it. It is not a matter essential to fellowship in the Fourfold Gospel, and while we do not deem it profitable to discuss these side issues in the Alliance, yet we do not deem it of sufficient importance to interrupt our perfect communion with those who hold these views.”

In the November 13, 1891 issue of the Christian Alliance was the following entry entitled: Professor Totten. “We have published a few selections from the writings of this remarkable man. We do not endorse all of his views; but we regard them as of a very providential character. A scientific man enjoying the confidence of the class he represents, he feels himself to be specially called to emphasize in these last days the prophetic testimony of God’s holy word and the second coming of the Lord Jesus, and he certainly, has brought to bear upon these questions a very remarkable degree of freshness, force, Scriptural knowledge, and scientific accuracy.”

Portion of the audience at National Kingdom Conference
Los Angeles - 1944

The Bible Educator Ministry
“Where the Word of God is not Bound”

TRUTH IN HISTORY MINISTRIES
P.O. BOX 808
OWASSO, OKLAHOMA 74055-0808
Web site: www.truthinhistory.org
Feb. 2007 Tract # 47
















































The first question dealt with the interior part of me and the second question dealt with exterior issues, which affect us nationally to this very day. As a matter of fact these two doctrines that I came to embrace and cherish could be likened unto twin redheaded step children left outside the door of the church…unloved and unwanted…with the leadership's strong rebuke just go away!
.
The first issue they brought to me was about the Godhead and its correlation to water baptism. They encouraged me to look at Matthew 28:19, 20 and then find in the New Testament record where the apostles ever used the Trinitarian formula of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. It can't be found! Believe me, I tried and tried. Searched and searched. It's just not there! This I found out later was the big issue in the early days of the "Pentecostal" Movement. In his book, "People of the Spirit," Gary B. McGee gives a brief description of the magnitude of this issue in the early days of the Assemblies of God. "Interest had been growing since 1913 in restoring what some Pentecostals believed to be another apostolic pattern, one that required water baptism in the name of Jesus Christ only (Acts 2:38). But the matter involved much more than just an option from baptizing in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit as commanded by Jesus in Matthew 28:19. It represented a serious departure from biblical teachings and historic Christian doctrine. Called the "New Issue," it eventually led to a major division in the General Council in 1916. After the adoption of a strongly worded Trinitarian creedal declaration, those members who embraced "Jesus Name" or "Oneness" teachings walked out of the meeting. Ultimately, 25 percent of the ministers withdrew over the doctrine."

I must tell you that the revelation of the Name of the Lord Jesus Christ touched the very heart of me and I submitted in obedience to that Name and I was re baptized according to Acts 2:36 38 and have never been the same and never regretted it, although it cost me my credentials with that denomination. I was disapproved by the organization but certainly hold no resentment or animosity toward them. It was an adventuresome time of life…and still is!

May I share with you this personal illustration? I recall with humor and laughter a time long ago when my wife asked me to feed our son John who was "graduating" from the small size jar of Gerber strained baby food to the larger "junior" size jar. Of course, the junior size wascoarser and had lumps in it that the finely strained jar didn't have. I placed my boy in the high chair, tied the bib around his sweet face; spread the plastic tablecloth on the floor and armed myself with a plastic baby spoon. Was I ever in for a big surprise.

Number one mistake: I should have tied the bib on me. Why? Well, when I put the spoonful of the new coarser food in his mouth, it had a new and different texture to it that he didn't like. Not because it didn't taste good. Not because it didn't have nutritional value. Not because it was too hot or too cold. Simply because it was different than what he was used to. What do you think happened?

He scrunched up his face, puffed up his cheeks, shook his face from side to side, and drawing breath from inside those little lungs, his tongue shot out in rapid motion with spitting food in all directions, letting me know he didn't like the change of diet. I coaxed him, pleaded with him, and begged him with the game of "open your mouth, Johnny, here comes the choo choo train into the tunnel." Did it work? No, he was addicted to the familiar. He was demonstrating a truth "I don't like change."

Are you aware that God's people in the modern day church do the same thing? Why sure. If the minister of an average congregation sees a new truth or a deepening revelation and shares it with his people, what can he expect their reaction to be? Eyes widen, countenances change, heads shake from side to side, muscles tighten, arms fold in defiance against the preacher and just like my infant son John, spiritual food is spit in all directions with the unspoken thought of "false doctrine." The sad thing is; it's not false, just different from what they've been used to for years. Maturity is moving on in truth.

The second issue that Frank Daire and Ed Marks shared with me is what I call the"exterior" issue. This "exterior" issue is not a salvation issue but it surely will affect your world view. It will determine your prophetic outlook. This is what the church world refuses to deal with. This is what a popular preacher considers an anathema. Sort of "spiritual arsenic." It will most certainly create division, ostracism, or what I call "spiritual exile." Get out!!
That issue is…"Israel." Christians who perceive "Israel" to be nothing more than a few unbelieving Jews returning to the Middle East as the fulfillment of end time prophecy are closing their minds to one of the most important truths in these last days. The Apostle Paul addressed this ever important question by asking; "Hath God cast away His people?" Paul's emphatic answer was; "God forbid."

Others substitute the church for "Israel" and try to tell us that God has changed His mind, altered His eternal purpose, and broke His covenant with Abraham and now we are "spiritual" Israel. They thus hope that what God failed to do with Israel He will accomplish with the church. A lot of popular television preachers erroneously tell us that Israel is the Jew and the Jew only. This only leads to confusion, consternation, and controversy wedding ceremony that would obligate national Israel to this very day to obey her vows made to her husband or suffer the consequences of her disobedience. Israel’s binding promise was; “All the words which the Lord hath said will be do” Ex. 24:3. The first Pentecost was not just for the purpose so that people could enjoy the visible and audible display of God’s power and glory upon Mt. Sinai. The voice of God trumpeted from Mt. Sinai and made known the calling of Israel as a national entity to be “unto me a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation” Ex. 19:6. There Israel received the Law whereby to live and govern its personal and national affairs as a faithful wife unto the Lord.

The antitype of the Old Testament Pentecost found in Acts 2 and following was for the same purpose, but under better terms of the New Covenant. The Lord manifest Himself in visible “cloven tongues like as of fire,” an audible “sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind,” and then the people “were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues” Acts. 2:1-4. Is the gift of “tongues” the voice of God to Israel to reveal unto us her calling as “a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation” unto God, to place the law into the hearts of the Israelites (Heb. 8:8-13) and to reaffirm her marital relationship with her husband? Referring to Israel, the prophet Isaiah said “with stammering lips and another tongue will he speak to this people” Isa. 28:11. Paul the Apostle applies this prophecy to the gift of tongues in I Corinthians 14:21-22. The prophet Isaiah goes on to say that “the word of the Lord was unto them precept upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little” Isa. 28:13. This clearly shows that through the Pentecostal gift of the Holy Spirit would be the means of the progressive revelation of truth to National Israel (the drunkards of Ephraim referred to Northern Israel, Isa. 28:1).

The Holy Spirit was definitely poured out as promised (Joel 2:28-29) upon the House of Israel in the early 1900's in Topeka, Kansas and Los Angeles, CA, which was only a down payment of which followed for the next fifty plus years. Has the modern Pentecostal movement, as a whole, seen the cloven tongues, felt the rushing wind, enjoyed the manifestation of God’s power in miracles, yet never heard the real voice of God? What revelation of profound truth has proceeded from the experience of the Spirit’s outpouring in the 20th Century? Has the Pentecostal movement received yet consumed the Baptism of the Holy Spirit upon its own lust and ‘used’ it for selfish reasons? Has the Holy Spirit and the gifts thereof been ‘used’ by men to further their ministerial reputations, build denominations and to distinguish one group of saints as being ‘advanced’ above all other saints, yet at the same time being deaf and sometimes despising the voice of God in the progressive revelation of truth?

In the Old Testament the Feast of Trumpets followed the Feast of Pentecost, but the modern Pentecostal movement refuses to move to the Feast of Trumpets so that it can hear the voice of God in unveiling of truth. Among the various reasons for the outpouring of the Holy Spirit, it was to; 1) “let all the house of Israel know” Acts 2:36. This was a reaffirmation of the covenantal and marital relationship with National Israel for; “God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew” Rom. 11:1-2. Another reason was to proclaim that 2) “God hath made that same Jesus . . . both Lord and Christ” Acts. 2:36. Through the power of anointed preaching by men with hearing ears tuned to the voice of God, the Holy Spirit makes known who Jesus really is. The purpose is to reveal that Jesus is “all in all” and that “in Him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead [deity] bodily”Col. 2:19. Jesus promised that when the Comforter was given to His followers “he shall testify of me” John 15:26.

To the spiritually keen observer it’s blatantly clear that during the second half of the 20th century the modern Pentecostal movement was hijacked by religious alien interests. It is now being ‘used’ by the Zionist lobby, religious show business celebrities, prosperity seekers, prophets for profit, Hollywood-minded social competitors and the jet-set politically correct cultural reformers. Instead of progressing in truth the movement as a whole is regressing. The Bible standards that the Pentecostal preachers of yesteryear advocated, the present-day preachers now disdain. Sin that was once condemned is now condoned. Within the ranks of modern ‘Pentecost’ and Christendom at large it is now necessary to Christianize Christians.


• Apostolic Christianity started in Jerusalem as an experience with God. It resulted in a Divine relationship.
• It became an idea and philosophy in Greek culture for debate.
• Then it became an organization in Rome for control.
• It now appears to have become a financial enterprise in America for gain.

Has the modern Pentecostal movement grieved the Spirit of Grace whereby it was once sealed? Has it prostituted the gifts of God that were once the earmark of a genuine spiritual outpouring? Would the awful possibility spoken by our Lord Jesus apply to modern ‘Pentecost’? He said; “If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness” Matt. 6:23. Modern ‘Pentecost’ needs a revival of Spirit and Truth. It needs to heed the many truths that men of God have been proclaiming for over a hundred years. One truth is the correct identification of the House of Israel and the House of Judah as being the Anglo-Saxon Germanic and related peoples. It needs to accept the Biblical fact of true Israel’s marital and covenantal relationship with her Husband/Redeemer Jesus Christ and to recognize the moral and judicial law of God as the governmental constitution of the Kingdom that the Holy Spirit came to restore. The true Christian Israel nations as the offspring of Abraham (Gen. 12:1-2) has been a blessing to all the families of the earth, yet fails to recognize their calling. In their ignorance, most ‘spirit-filled’ Christians instead deny their covenantal relationship with their genealogical Israelite ancestors and gives it away to an unbelieving Christ-rejecting people.

Within the very heart of the traditional Pentecostal movement the Lord has sent many anointed messengers proclaiming the Gospel of the Kingdom, yet most of them have been misunderstood, rejected and even excommunicated from fellowship. Some have been well-known, others less known and some unknown, but they continued to cry out as a voice in the wilderness of religious confusion. The ministers listed in this brochure all believed, proclaimed and received the Baptism of the Holy Spirit and opened their ears to the understanding of the Anglo-Israel truth that would transform not only Christendom, but western civilization, yet their message goes unheeded by the church at large. Among these were great men of faith, soul-winners, pastors, missionaries, apostles, prophets, Bible scholars, all having made a great contribution to the Body of Christ. Many of them had very unusual conversion experiences to Christ and received supernatural confirmations in their acceptance of the truth of the Anglo-Israel message of Scripture. The ministries of these men of God impacted multiplied tens of thousands of people for Jesus Christ and Biblical truth. The Pentecostal ministers listed here by no means includes all those that believed and taught the Gospel of the Kingdom. If the truth be known there were hundreds who believed, but left no written record of any of their doctrinal beliefs.

The following Pentecostal ministers are not included in this brochure,because their testimonies have been written in previous brochures that can be ordered from this ministry. (Order by name and number)

- Fred F. Bosworth – Prominent Healing Evangelist # 41
- George Jeffreys – One of Britain’s greatest Evangelists # 43
- Charles O. Benham – Evangelist, author and publisher # 48
- George R. Hawtin – ‘Father’ of the Latter Rain Movement # 57
- John A. Dowie – ‘Grandfather’of modern Healing ministry # 58
- Frank Sandford – Bible School founder, pastor, publisher # 62
- John Lovell – Pastor, author, publisher # 64

Also see: Revival Insights # 65
Controversy in Zion # 51

If there is one group among the Body of Christ that should understand, appreciate and accept their Biblical heritage, it should be the Pentecostals. They are the ones who have seen the visible manifestation of God’s power for over one hundred years. Instead, the gift of the Holy Spirit has been institutionalized and the people forced to strictly conform to religious protocol, thus restricting the saints from receiving any fresh truth by divine revelation. There are promises in God’s Word concerning the outpouring of the Holy Spirit which definitely applies to and in turn identifies the recipients thereof as being the true House of Israel. Isa. 28:11-12;
I Cor. 14:21-22; Isa. 44:1-3; Isa. 59:20-21; Joel 2:28-29

The Baptism of the Holy Spirit is an experience available today to every Christian believer according to Acts 2:38-39. I personally affirm my belief due to my own experience when only 17 years old.

Does not history record that spiritual revivals have primarily began among the western European people and they in turn took the message to other people, thus fulfilling one of the identifying marks of the children of Abraham? The Lord said unto Abram, “and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.” Again, “and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed” Gen. 12:13; 22:18. Our Lord has been faithful to His promises. Our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ has come to Zion, sent unto us the Holy Spirit, placed His law in our hearts and His Word in our mouths. Praise the Lord, the lost sheep of Israel have been found.


CHARLES FOX PARHAM

Whenever the history of the latter-day spiritual outpouring is studied, Charles F. Parham is most likely always considered as being the father of the modern Pentecostal movement.

Charles Parham was born in Muscatine, Iowa on June 4, 1879, into a family of prominent English ancestry. When he was twelve years old his mother died while the family was living in Cheney, Kansas. As his mother was dying and saying her goodbyes to the family, she turned to him and said,”Charlie, be good.” There in the presence of God and his dying mother, he vowed that he would meet her in heaven. Ever since the age of nine years old he had felt a divine call to the ministry and a strong attraction to Christian evangelism.

At the age of six months, Parham was taken with a fever that left him an invalid. He suffered for five years with dreadful spasms and enlargement of the forehead. As a young teenager, he was converted to Christ in a Congregational Church and enrolled in Southwestern Kansas College at sixteen. After a time of spiritual laxity, backsliding and then rebellion against entering the ministry, he was stricken with rheumatic fever. He was given up to die by his friends and physician. For several months he suffered while the words kept ringing in his ears; “Will you preach?” Finally, he began to repent and pray in desperation. Then every joint in his body loosened and every organ in his body was healed except his ankles. After renewing his vow to God to preach the Gospel, Parham experienced total healing. He records; “Then one night, while praying, under a tree, to which I had crawled on the old college campus, God instantly sent the virtue of healing like a mighty electric current through my body and my ankles were made whole, like the man at the beautiful gate in the Temple.”

Parham pastored a Methodist church for two years from 1893-1895 before joining the Holiness movement and opening the Bethel Healing Home in Topeka, Kansas in 1898. He began to publish his bi-monthly Holiness paper, The Apostolic Faith.

After some time of further research into the Holiness movement and earnestly seeking for a greater personal manifestation of spiritual power, Parham returned to Topeka in September 1900. Here he opened a Bible school in an old mansion, where he encouraged the students to seek for a greater spiritual experience as recorded in the Book of Acts. One of the students, Agnes Ozman received the expected blessing and spoke in ‘tongues’ as a sign of its reception. This greatly encouraged Parham and the rest of the student body and within a few days he and about half of the students testified as to receiving the “Baptism of the Holy Spirit.” A similar revival experience occurred in Galena, Kansas in 1903. From there, Parham went to Houston, Texas and held a ten-week training session which fanned the flames of the Pentecostal message throughout Texas. Soon afterward, the outpouring in Los Angeles, California occurred and quickly spread throughout the country. Among all the early leaders of the modern Pentecostal movement, Charles F. Parham is credited with formulating classical Pentecostal theology and is recognized as being its principle pioneer and founder.

As early as 1899 or before, Parham had recognized and was teaching the truth of the Christian Anglo-Israel message of the Bible. He earnestly contended for this truth until his death on January 29, 1929.

The following entries are excerpts or references to articles from various issues of The Apostolic Faith, which was edited by Charles Parham for over thirty years. In each article, written by him or another author, shows his commitment to the truth that the Anglo-Saxon and related peoples are the descendants of the ancient people of God, known as Israel.


THE KAISER’S LONG PEDIGREE

[London Chronicle] “Among the curiosities of the New Palace, Potsdam, which has been the scene of a fire, is a genealogical tree showing the name of King David engrossed at the root of it, with that of the Kaiser at the top, the descent being traced through his mother’s family.
According to this genealogy the reigning house of Great Britain is descended from David through the eldest daughter of Zedekiah, who fled to Ireland in charge of the Prophet Jeremiah, and eventually married Heremon, King of Ulster.”
The Apostolic Faith June 1913

LOST TRIBES OF ISRAEL FOUND IN BRITAIN

“At the last session of the British Israel Association in this city, quotations were made from an address by the Hon. H.H. Stevens, and M.P. before the Forum of the First Congregational Church in Vancouver. Mr. Stevens said in part:
Christianity was brought to the Britains from Rome, but to the contrary, the Romans owed everything to the early Britains who established Christianity in their midst. The earliest Christian church outside of Jerusalem was established at Glastonbury, Somersetshire, England. And from there the new religion spread all over Europe.
Christianity was brought to the early Britains direct from Jerusalem by apostles of Christ shortly after the passion, and as early as 165 A.D. had become the National religion of the country. The general impression that Christianity had first been introduced into Britain by Augustine about 595 to 610 A.D. was entirely erroneous, as three British Bishops attended the Council of Arles A.D. 314.”
The Emperor Constantine who first supplanted the Crescent with the Cross at the head of his armies, was the son of a Roman General who had married a British Princess, and it was from his mother he learned Christianity. When King Caradoo, the ruling Sovereign of all the British tribes, was defeated after forty pitched battles and taken prisoner to Rome, his daughter Claudius accompanied him and established the first Christian church in Rome. Her brother Linus (both of whom are mentioned by Paul in II Timothy 4 and 21) was appointed the first Bishop of Rome by the Apostle Paul.”
Charles F. Parham, October 1925


A PLEASURABLE MEETING

While in California we had the great pleasure of meeting Bishop J.H. Allen in his home in Pasadena. We had known him for 35 years and from him many years ago had obtained the foundation truths of many things we are preaching today. Especially the wonderful message of Anglo-Israel. And any one wishing to get the most profound works on that subject printed today should write him for his book Judah’s Scepter and Israel’s Birthright, a book of over 300 pages, costing only $3.00. Though very aged and not fully recovered from a dislocated hip, he gave us some wonderful things relating to his visit to the world’s Anglo-Israel Congress held in London last year as he was one of the leading speakers and the day he preached several of the Royal Family were present, then he told of a day spent in the Royal Library of the Kings Palace and while there said to the Librarian, “I understand that you have here a copy of the Kings pedigree back to Adam, Dr. Anderson and W.H. Milner, World renown genealogists attest as authentic and genuine and undisputably correct and that my friend Chas. F. Parham in America obtained a copy of it from the Librarian under the reign of Queen Victoria.” He said, “yes, but we do not show it to very many.” Then Brother Allen said that from a drawer well secreted by many papers covering it they drew a massive scroll 17 feet long and 5 feet across, bound in Gold and Scarlet and there my friend and daughter poured over the sacred document that means so much to all who believe that we are the true descendants of the lost tribes of Israel and that the Kings of the earth today are the blood descendants of David, King of the Jews [Judahites].
Then he told us of the visit to Westminster Abbey where he was allowed to lay his hand on the stone of Scone under the Coronation Chair. The stone that is said to have been the one Joshua said this stone has heard all the words of our covenant with the Lord and which Jeremiah brought to Ireland and on which all the Kings of Judah were crowned and all the Kings of Scotland and all the Kings of England since James brought the stone from Scotland. God be praised for the long life of usefulness of our dear Bishop.
Charles F. Parham, April 1926

THE TRIBE OF JUDAH

It is very strange indeed that scholars who recorded the Aryan immigration into western Europe never put two and two together and discovered that the cradle of the Aryan race was the exact country where previously the ten lost tribes of Israel were colonized. While passing through Northern Greece, historians of that day frequently wrote of them, noted their peculiarities. It was said by one historian that they believed in the immortality of the soul and one God, which the Greeks did not; also that in primitive times they had received their law and regulations from one Ike Moxes (Moses) who spent many days in the mountains and returned with the same. Pushing their way westward into what is now Germany, many were captured and sold on the slave market of Rome. When Caesar inquired who these beautiful creatures were when they told him, he said, “They should be called angels;” a term which has ever followed them.
During their migration, they were known by different names, according to the country through which they were passing. Such terms as Isuki, Sacae, Sacea, Suncea, Saxones, and many others, until it terminated in Saxons: their land was called Saxony. Thus coupled with Caesar’s title, they became Anglo-Saxons! The word Saxon being a derivation of ISAAC’S SONS; fulfilling the prophecy. “In Isaac shall thy seed be called.” (Gen. 21:12). The Saxon conquest of Great Britain ( and today coupled with the United States) of nearly all the world proves the Scriptures; they were to be the “head and not the tail of nation.”
England is called the Lion because she possesses the sceptre of David and her ruling power is seed royal of Judah. The Lion is a figure of kingship, Christ, the King, is often referred to as the Lion of the tribe of Judah.

Ephraim to be a company of nations, England.
Manasseh was to be the gathering of nations, United States.
Now, if the reader will carefully read Jacob’s blessing upon his children, for the last days, and all the prophecies concerning Israel in the Old Testament, realizing they pertain to the above named nations, the Old Testament will become a new book to you of vital import and interest.
Charles F. Parham, Sept. 1926

WHAT WE SAW AT WINDSOR CASTLE

The author of this article, Bishop J .H. Allen, relates the account of his visit to London in 1920 to address “The First World Congress of Believers in the Identity of the Saxons and Anglo-Saxons with the one time lost or unidentified House of Israel. . .” He goes on to describe what he saw at Windsor Castle. He saw the genealogical chart of the Royal Family of Great Britain, once owned by Queen Victoria, which proves their literal descent from King David.
November 1926

JUDAH’S SCEPTER AND JOSEPH’S BIRTHRIGHT

In the May 1927 issue of The Apostolic Faith there appeared a promotional ad for Bishop J. H. Allen’s book “Judah’s Sceptre and Joseph’s Birthright.” It was made available from the author at Pasadena, California address for the price of $2.00 postpaid.

WATCH THE 153 GREAT FISHES

This was another article by Bishop J. H. Allen concerning the British Royal Family as being descended from the House of David. It appeared in the May 1927 issue of The Apostolic Faith.


Another article printed in The Apostolic Faith magazine of March 22, 1899 was entitled “Queen Victoria’s Descent from Adam.” This article showed the genealogical Family to the royal dynasty of King David. This article is reprinted in tract #54 and is available from Truth in History Ministries.



GEORGE WILLIAM SOUTHWICK
George Southwick was born on December 1, 1918 in Lakeland, Florida. When only a small boy, he and his family moved to Burbank, California where he was raised and graduated from Burbank High School in 1936. He then attended L.I.F.E. Bible School which was founded and directed by the famous Aimee Semple McPherson. While there, he not only was taught by Sister McPherson, but also heard other well-known ministers and Bible teachers such as Frank C. Thompson of the Thompson Chain Reference Bible, Luke Rader of the Minneapolis River Lake Gospel Tabernacle, Adolph P. Gouthey and many more. Not long after graduation he received ministerial ordination with the International Church of the Foursquare Gospel. He was later ordained in the Assemblies of God, the Apostolic Holiness and the Whosoever Will Fellowship.

After George Southwick’s marriage to Leona Rasmussen on March 1, 1942, he held pastorates in the Upper Michigan District and Adams, Wisconsin. While pastoring in Michigan during an evening service, the Lord manifested Himself in a visible ball of fire that rolled across the floor.

This was one of many miraculous visitations in his spiritual walk with the Lord that brought him from “Glory to Glory” throughout his ministerial life of service to the body of Christ. He later held pastorates in Oregon andCalifornia. Convinced that a life of learning is not lost and a love of books, he possessed a personal library of over 12,000 volumes. In February 1999 Logos Theological Seminary of Jacksonville, Florida conferred upon him an Honorary Doctorate of Divinity degree.

During his life of eighty-seven years, Pastor Southwick had the privilege of considering among his friends such men of God as: Fred Vogel, William Booth-Clibborn, Dr. Claud Phileo, A.E. Mitchell, Gordon Lindsay and Thomas A. Lindsay.

When just a small boy it was evident that the hand of the Lord was upon young George’s life. He was converted to Christ at an early age and soon recognized a spiritual call upon his heart for a life of service in the vineyard of the Lord. He was greatly stirred in his spirit when at the age of ten his mother took him to hear the great Welsh Revivalist, Stephen Jeffreys. There he heard the first hand report of the story of the miraculous vision of the face of the “Man of Sorrows” on the wall of the Island Place Mission in 1914 in Llanelly, Wales. According to his frequent testimony, he related that early in his life many visitors would stop by the home of his parents. Often the topic of conversation would be the identity and location of the ‘Ten Lost Tribes of Israel.’ Not understanding the significance of this information, he pondered this subject and hid it away in his heart for many years.

Later on as a pastor, he began to earnestly seek the Lord concerning this subject. He diligently sought the Lord through prayer and study of the Scriptures for ten years before making a public mention of this subject. He became thoroughly convinced of the validity of this truth yet was hesitant to teach it for fear of the consequences from his fellow ministers. That fear was suddenly removed one day by a supernatural experience that he had while sharing this truth with another couple. He and his wife were sitting in the front seat of their car sharing the Anglo-Israel message with the couple in the back seat, when suddenly he felt the finger of God come through the top of the car and touch him on the top of his head. He felt the Spirit of God go throughout his body removing his fear to preach this message and confirming the validity of the Anglo-Israel truth. From then on he boldly proclaimed this great Gospel of the Kingdom throughout the nation in conferences and by means of a tape ministry. In 1975, Pastor Southwick and his wife founded The Bible Educator Ministry, throughwhich he produced a publication called The Kingdom Treasure and hundreds of sermon tapes. He was a favorite conference speaker and was well loved by all who knew him. He passed away on January 21, 2006.

THOMAS A. LINDSAY
Even as a youth Thomas Lindsay was spiritually inclined and had a heart toward God. He experienced a real Christian conversion at the age of twenty-two and never wavered in his faith from that time on. In about 1905 he moved to Zion City, Illinois after hearing of the success of Dr. John Alexander Dowie. There he met his wife, Effie Munn and started raising his family. While living in Zion, the Lindsays acquired a genuine lasting faith in the promises of God when seeing the healing power of the Lord manifested in the ministry of Dr. Dowie. As a former resident of Zion City, who learned much from Dr. Dowie, it is no surprise that Thomas A. Lindsay, the father of well-known Gordon Lindsay was a believer in the Anglo-Israel message. In fact he was an executive member of the Anglo-Saxon Federation of Oregon after leaving Illinois. While living in Portland, the Lindsay’s attended the church of Pastor John G. Lake.

In their senior years, Thomas Lindsay and his wife spent time in Dallas, Texas with their son Gordon. I was told that while there they often visited First Covenant Church to enjoy the sermons on the Anglo-Israel message given by Dr. John A. Lovell. Mrs. Lindsay passed away early in 1957 while Thomas Lindsay passed away at the age of 88 years old in late 1961.

*******************

“Unless the Prophets faithless be – and the Seer’s words be vain
Wher’er is found Jehovah’s throne – Prince David’s line shall reign”

GORDON LINDSAY
One of the ‘household names’ of the traditional Pentecostal and Charismatic movements is Gordon Lindsay. He was born in 1906 while his parents were living in Zion City, Illinois. His parents had moved there to attend the Christian Catholic Church and be participants in the Christian community founded by John Alexander Dowie. Dowie was also a strong believer in the Anglo-Israel message. ( See our brochure # 58.) Later his family moved to Portland, Oregon. At the age of eighteen, Gordon was converted to Christ under the ministry of Charles F. Parham (see our brochure # 54) while attending a church pastored by John G. Lake, a former resident of Zion city, Illinois. Before marriage to his wife, Freda, he joined the evangelistic ministry of Brother Lake, traveling throughout California and the southern United States. Lindsay began his pastoral ministry in small churches in California and Ashland, Oregon.

In 1947, Lindsay joined the ministry of William Branham to function as the campaign manager to promote and report on the meetings. This was when he first published his well known Voice of Healing Magazine. He later published World Wide Revival and Christ for the Nations magazines. He became one of the most prominent men involved in the divine healing movement of the 1940's and 50's, organizing conventions of healing evangelists, serving as counsel for many of them and reporting the results of their meetings. His death in 1973 was a big loss to not only his family and friends, but to all the Pentecostal & Charismatic church world.

It is very obvious that Gordon Lindsay at one time was an advocate of the Anglo-Israel message. In 1940, his articles on the study of Biblical Chronological Timelines were printed in The Anglo-Saxon World published in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The printed purpose of the magazine was stated as: “The contents of the magazine are dedicated to the more rapid teaching of the Anglo-Saxon identity with Israel and the bringing in of the Kingdom of God on earth.” (Feb. 1, 1940). In the body of his article entitled, “The Wonders of Bible Chronology” Lindsay wrote:
“ In connection with the subject about to be discussed, it will no doubt be of interest to the reader to understand that while the writer has long been convinced of the truth of the British Israel Identity, it was not until the amazing system of cycles of Bible chronology was discovered, that he was able to realize the tremendous importance this fact played in the Divine Scheme of the destiny of the nations. About two years after the completion of this chronology, its further consideration brought amazement to the writer when he discovered, that interwoven into the chronology was an astounding system of cycles, the mathematical ingenuity of which, was almost beyond belief. But more astonishing still, was the fact that these cycles were so ordered that they show every event of Bible and world history has been timed. Thus the significance of these events can be understood in their relation to one another. These cycles also point unmistakably to the fact that the identity of Britain and the United States of America is to be found in Israel.”

In his March 1940 article entitled, “The Thirteen Cycles of the United States” Lindsay writes the following: “Let us for a moment briefly consider the nation of the United States, as it appears in prophecy. The fact that Israel was to develop into great and independent nations in the last days, is clear from the study of Genesis 48:16-19, and 49:1. In these Scriptures Jacob foretells her destiny in the descendants of Ephraim and Manasseh.
And let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. . .He (Manasseh) also shall be great: but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations.

“That such a destiny has never been fulfilled in the dispersed Jews is obvious. That it has been fulfilled in Britain and in America as Ephraim and Manasseh is just as apparent. Both have grown to be a “great people” in the “midst of the earth.” America has become a great nation. The British Empire, has become a Company of Nations. The lack of space in Britain, made it necessary for the ever increasing population to migrate and colonize other lands. The breaking away of the first colonies (the original thirteen states of America) was foreseen by the prophet in Isaiah 49:20.

The children which thou shalt have, after thou hast lost the other, shall say again in thine ears, the place is too straight for me; give place to me that I may dwell.

“Britain lost the United States, in the Revolutionary War. This, as we have seen, as in the Divine plan.”

In the April 1940 article entitled, Cycles of the “Sign Woman” Israel, Lindsay writes in the author’s introductory note: “The writer has suspended, for the present, his active ministry, that he might give his entire attention to the preparation for publication of the amazing series of discoveries that prove beyond contradiction, the identity of Israel as the Anglo-Saxon nations.” In the body of the article he wrote the following under the subtitle;

Israel-the Sun Clothed Woman

“In our article this month, we shall consider the prophecy of the sun-clothed woman of Rev. 12. As the chapter heading in the Scofield Reference Bible shows, there is general unanimity among prophetic scholars that this woman is a symbol of Israel. We shall not take space therefore, to prove this prophetic truth, which ordinarily is accepted, except that we might call attention to the fact that the symbols used are strongly Israelitish, and that the Man Child who evidently represents Christ, came of the seed of Israel.

“Bible scholars in interpreting this prophecy, concur in the teaching thus:
The Sign Woman is Israel, and the Man Child to whom she gave birth, is the Messiah, Jesus Christ. After fulfilling His earthly Ministry, Sufferings, and Death, the Man Child ascended to heaven. Satan, balked in his malevolent schemes to present the fulfillment of God’s redemptive Plan in Christ, turned in frustrated fury upon Israel with the avowed purpose of affecting her destruction. But, as the prophecy reveals, the Lord protected the Woman and appointed to her a place of refuge, which is spoken of as “the wilderness.” There she is preserved for a period of 1260 days, or a “time and times and half a time.” At this point prophetic interpretation diverges; those who fail to see the British-Israel identity, are forced to the conclusion that this Flight of the Woman, refers to the Jews escaping from Palestine during the final troublous times o f this age. There are a number of obvious reasons why such an interpretation cannot be true. One of these is the plain statement of Rev. 12:17, which declares that the Woman and at least a “Remnant of her seed–keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.” How could such a description refer to the Jews, who to this day as a people, stubbornly reject the Messiahship of Christ?

We must look, for the fulfillment of this prophecy, to a nation of which at least a portion of the people believes in the Lord Jesus Christ.

“British-Israel believers identify the Flight of the Woman to be that of the Lost Tribes of Israel, who, escaping Gentile domination, migrated to Britain the “Appointed Place.” (2 Sam. 7:10.) There, surrounded by seas and protected from Continental attack, they renew their strength and finally achieve their destiny as a mighty nation.”

It was after his rise to prominence in the healing revival movement that Lindsay abandoned his earlier belief in the Anglo-Israel message. In my twenty-five plus years of friendship with Pastor Southwick, he related the following story to me several times. When Pastor Southwick was living in Portland, Oregon, his friend Tom Lindsay would come by the pear packing plant where he was a manager and they would have long and pleasant visits together. Tom clearly said: “George, my son Gordon knows the Anglo-Israel message, but he refuses to preach it.”



JOHN GRAHAM LAKE
As a young man, John G. Lake (born 1870) was converted to Christ and was ordained into the ministry at the age of twenty-one by the Methodist Church. In 1898, his wife, sister, son and a friend were miraculously healed under the ministry of John A. Dowie. Lake later became a deacon in Dr. Dowie’s church in Zion City, Illinois. He was a very progressive and successful businessman, working in newspaper publishing, real estate and the insurance industry. Feeling a personal call to the ministry, Lake began to hold meetings in the evenings, while seeking for the Pentecostal experience of the infilling of the Holy Spirit. After receiving this experience in 1907, he felt a missionary call to South Africa. The Lord honored Lake’s ministry while in Africa with hundreds of verifiable miracles of healing and divine provision for his family.

After the death of his wife in 1908, he continued his African ministry, but returned to the states in 1912. He settled in Spokane, Washington where he opened a “healing home” and thousands gave testimony of physical healing by the power of God. Concerning Lake’s commitment to the Anglo-Israel truth, Herb Frizzell, in the draft of his unpublished book, records the following. “From personal sources I am told that Rev. John G. Lake became a believer in the [Christian Israel] message in the latter part of his ministry. Mrs. Ione E. Eaton, . . . asserted to me personally that Dr. Lake definitely believed the message. This was ascertained after talking to various people who knew him personally. Ione Eaton told me that Dr. Lake use to come to their house and bounce her on his knee when she was a child. She says that Lake was a wonderful man of God, and he even baptized her when she was a child. Some derided him for believing in the message and, in fact, their memory of this was burned into their minds by the fact that they thought that dear old Dr. Lake has “gotten off the rails into error” and should have been corrected.


ALEXANDER SCHIFFNER After pastoring in the city of Spokane, Washington for over forty years, he was know n as the senior pastor of the city. Alexander Schiffner was born on March 24, 1900 in Walla Walla, Washington to German immigrant parents who arrived in the United States two years before his birth. His parents had agreed that if the first child born to them in this country was a boy they would dedicate him to the Lord for the work of the ministry. As an infant he was baptized in the Lutheran Church and was confirmed at the age of twelve in the German Congregational Church.

After completing his public education in Umapine, Oregon, he first worked on a ranch, then joined in partnership in a dry-cleaning and laundry plant. In 1917 he married Wadie Opal Alexander and soon moved to Los Angeles, California. There he worked in the dry-cleaning business and even purchased his own plants in Los Angeles and Hollywood. He became a very successful businessman even during the depression, living a life of ease yet extremely unhappy.

His younger brother Adolph was earnestly praying for Alexander’s conversion to Christ and kept asking him to attend a Bible College. One day Alexander took the Bible his father had given him as a wedding gift and threw it on the floor and said to his wife and brother, “I’m going to prove that there is nothing to this Bible, it’s a book of fairy tales written for the superstitious and for children.” On their first day of attendance at a Baptist Bible College in Los Angeles on September 19, 1933, the Spirit of God began to deal with his heart. As their instructor, Rev. A.E. Mitchell asked the class, “Why are you here?” Alexander’s heart was gripped with conviction. With class dismissed, the instructor asked each student to kneel at their seat and pray. Dr. Schiffner later recorded; “It seemed as if a big ball of fire hit me on the top of the head and went down through my body to the soles of my feet, and I started to cry. I was a successful businessman who was unsentimental and unemotional and hadn’t cried since my childhood. I heard some chains drop with a clank to the cement floor below. I don’t know how long I was on my knees, but after I rose from praying, I rubbed my eyes in order to see more clearly, for it seemed as if I was walking in a great light. I asked Adolph, ‘who dropped those chains while I was praying?”

Not long after his conversion while giving his testimony in a street meeting, he was introduced to a group of “Full Gospel” or “Pentecostal” saints. After a three day and two night season of fasting and prayer, he was alone when the Holy Spirit came upon him. He worshiped in tongues for more than two hours and finally heard the clear voice of God saying, “preach, preach, preach.” While in a vison he saw a sea of hands reaching out of the pit beseeching for help. Not long afterwards he enrolled in L.I.F.E. Bible School founded by Aimee Semple McPherson. In September 1935, he, his wife and two children moved to Spokane and started a church affiliated with the Foursquare Gospel denomination.

While returning home on the train to Spokane from a convention, he experienced a supernatural visitation from an angel of the Lord. The angel said, “Fear not, my son, I have come to minister unto thee. I have poured my grace and my truth into your lips. Go forth and speak my word without fear or favor.” On April 25, 1942, while in Bible study preparing for Sunday service, the Lord revealed to Dr. Schiffner the Anglo-Israel message from the 48th and 49th chapters of Genesis. Two months after he received this revelation he went to Portland to visit the Foursquare leadership. Dr. Schiffner writes, “He informed me that the Founder-President of the organization and other pastors, including himself, had studied the message of the Israel Identity but that the board and the headquarters officials had ruled that although the doctrine of Anglo-Israelism had Scriptural verification, they decided by majority vote that it was not yet time for the message to be proclaimed.”

In time, Dr. Schiffner bought the old wooden tabernacle from the widow of John G. Lake which had been built for the Billy Sunday crusades. From this humble beginning Bethel Temple was built with both radio and television outreach Ministries. The monthly magazine Prophetic Herald was published for over forty years dealing with religious, economic and political issues. In over 44 years of ministry, Dr. Schiffner wrote scores of brochures and booklets and was active in the Lord’s work until the day of his death.


FRANK M. MAULDEN
Among the few details known about the early life of Frank Maulden is that he was born on August 7, 1897 and spent his early years in West Texas. As a young man he was converted to Christ and grew up under the influence of a Godly grandmother. A childhood experience where the Lord protected his grandmother from a crazy man greatly strengthened his faith in the reality of the power of God. An extremely mad man threatened to kill his grandmother with a gun. She said; “you can’t harm me because I serve the Lord Jesus.” When the man tried to pull the trigger his hand froze and then he suddenly fled.

In his early ministry Frank Maulden preached for the Assemblies of God in West Texas. Soon he met his wife Alma to whom he was married for sixty years. She passed away in 1986. After moving to the Northwest, he was affiliated with a Oneness Pentecostal Church and served as a district official in Yakima, Washington. In the 1930's, he and his wife moved to Idaho and pastored a ‘Oneness’ Church in twin falls and founded a church in Meridian which he pastored from 1953 to 1980. Frank Maulden remained faithful to the divine revelation of the Anglo-Israel truth in spite of his dismissal from the denomination. Pastor Maulden was highly respected and loved by his fellow ministers and laymen and remained faithful to his Lord until the day of his death on January 22, 1988 at the age of ninety-one years.

MAXIE A.X. CLARK
It is believed that Max Clark was born around 1892 and most likely in the western part of the United States. Not much is known of his early life, but it is suspected that he attended some of the meetings at the Azusa street outpouring between 1906 and 1911. Max Clark was definitely Pentecostal in his theology, experience and fellowship as clearly evident in his publication articles and his book entitled The Pentecostal Movement-Forty Years of Power, Probation and Progress. In 1913 he was ordained with the Pentecostal Assemblies of the World in Portland, Oregon. He was later ordained with the Assemblies of God in 1920, but his credentials were dropped in December 1924. Most likely from this point on he remained as an independent in his religious affiliations.

For many years he was the editor of The National Christian Journal and The Pentecostal Journal which dealt with issues of prophecy, history, theology, homiletics and current events. Articles in these magazines included prominent Pentecostal authors such as Evangelist Zelma Argue and M. Leslie Crosson of the Sixth Street Assembly of God Church in Sacramento, California.

The sponsorship for these magazines was widespread according to the long list of commercial ads. The readership of these journals must have been very high and widespread throughout the Pentecostal, Fundamental and evangelical world as indicated by the letters to the editor. The responses were from Bible Schools, civil government officials, denominational officials such as J. Roswell Flower of the Assemblies of God and Howard A. Goss of the United Pentecostal Church. Among his many friends and subscribers were prominent Anglo-Israel pastors such as John A. Lovell and Dr. Alexander Schiffner.

Max Clark was a strong believer in the Anglo-Israel message of Scripture as proven by the many articles in his magazines. The article The Five Sons of Judah by Schiffner and Clark’s article Abraham’s Posterity – A study in Racial Origins shows the Anglo-Saxon people as fulfilling the promises that were prophesied as belonging to the sons of Joseph. These fulfillments have been and are primarily taking place in Great Britain and the United States. It is believed that he passed away sometime in the 1960's.


THEODORE FITCH
Little is known of the early life of Theodore Fitch, but one thing is certain and that was his life-time commitment to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He was born on December 1, 1893 in northern Iowa and he made his home for many years in Council Bluffs.

As a young man he owned the Iowa Paint Factory. He was financially successful in this business, especially during the Great Depression due to large government purchases for their WPA projects. After he was converted to Christ, possibly in the Foursquare Church, he opened a city Union Mission for the homeless and derelicts. He would feed 150 men twice a day sponsored by his paint factory.

Theodore Fitch had a tremendous and glorious conversion to Jesus Christ somewhere around 1930. He then began to seek the Lord for a Pentecostal infilling of the Spirit and during this time he experienced a vision of Jesus in full life-like color. In this vision he heard a voice saying to him, “Jesus is God.” After this supernatural vision, he then began to fellowship with the ‘Oneness’ churches. With this spiritual zeal he entered the ministry, doing evangelistic work in churches and on the radio and remained active for over sixty years until his death on December 21, 1991. He was a strong believer in the Pentecostal message and experience which is evident by his many books on the Baptism of the Holy Spirit and related subjects.

During his ministry he had many friends and associates and was known to accommodate in his home many ministers for weeks and even months in addition to his family of ten children. After the vision experience, Theodore Fitch accepted Jesus as the Great Physician for himself and his family. He believed in living a life of faith. When his son Jimmy was nine years old, he contracted a sleeping sickness with double pneumonia. A doctor visited the home and offered his services free of charge, but Fitch refused saying Jesus was the healer. After being asleep for three weeks and given up to die, a friend was impressed to visit the Fitch Family. He prayed for the boy and he was instantly healed. The boy woke up and said that he was hungry.

Theodore Fitch established Bible Truths Restored ministry with a mailing list of 50,000 names and published seventy-five different books with a worldwide outreach. Based upon the many books that he wrote upon the subject it is evident that he was a strong advocate of the Anglo-Israel message of Scripture. He was always a happy and vivacious person and expressed the joy of the Lord in his life and preaching. Just before he died he told his son that it was time for him to go. After his normal breakfast he went back to bed, simply closed his eyes and peacefully died.


GORDON MAGEE
Very little is known of the early life of Gordon Magee except that he was born in Plymouth, England on May 19, 1920. He was converted to Christ and called into the ministry as a young man and found ministry opportunities in Belfast, Northern Ireland. After receiving the Baptism of the Holy Spirit, his ministry was particularly fruitful in pioneering the revelation message of the Oneness of the Godhead. He was also instrumental in establishing with other ministers the Churches of God in Ireland and their official magazine, Standard of Truth. Under his anointed ministry thousands were brought to the knowledge that the Anglo-Saxon people were the literal descendants of ancient Israel. By 1952 Gordon Magee was living and ministering in Toronto, Canada. He later moved to the United States and after extensive ministry established a church in Houston, Texas. During his long ministry of many years he wrote and published articles and booklets including his widely circulated treatise, Is Jesus in the Godhead or is the Godhead in Jesus?


WILLIAM OLIVER HUTCHINSON
W. O. Hutchinson was one of the founders of the Apostolic Faith Church, which was the First Pentecostal movement in Great Britain. He also established Emmanuel Mission Hall in Winton, Bournemouth, England. After receiving the Baptism in the Spirit in the Church of England Vicarage at Sunderland in 1908, Stanley H. Frodsham assisted Hutchinson in the founding of Mission Hall. Frodsham later emigrated to the United States and became editor for 28 years of the Assemblies of God official organ, The Pentecostal Evangel. Hutchinson first published Showers of Blessings periodical in January 1910, which increased to a circulation of 10,000. This publication contained the teaching and reports of the activities of the many Pentecostal congregations in Great Britain connected with the Apostolic Faith Church. It is believed that Hutchinson adopted the name of his movement from Charles F. Parham’s paper, Apostolic Faith.

During the early years of the Pentecostal movement in Great Britain, Hutchinson ministered with many men such as Smith Wigglesworth and Cecil H. Polhill, who later became very prominent in the Pentecostal movement. Hutchinson was the first minister in the modern Pentecostal movement to be publicly recognized as Chief Apostle, which position he held until his death. In his book “The Origins of the Apostolic Church in Great Britain, James E. Worsfold gives the following account of the life and ministry of W.O. Hutchinson.

“The first Pentecostal church building in Great Britain, Emmanuel Mission Hall, was opened on 5 November 1909. It owed its origins to the ministry of William Oliver Hutchinson. By 1909, Hutchinson’s influence was already such that one of the guest speakers at the opening services was no less a person than Cecil Polhill, one of the famed Cambridge Seven.
“In this writer’s view, Hutchinson is most definitely the father of the twentieth century apostolic-type of Pentecostal movements in Great Britain. The Apostolic Faith Church, Bournemouth, the Apostolic Church, Penygroes, and the United Apostolic Faith Church, London all owe their introduction to the apostolic ministry to this valiant pioneer preacher who believed that God would restore the New Testament ministries and offices of apostle and prophet.
“Hutchinson was born of Primitive Methodist parents at Blackhill, County Durham, on 11 January 1864. His father was a merchant tailor and local preacher. He began his working life as a shepherd and, while terrified during a violent thunderstorm high up in the hills, he vowed to serve God faithfully if He would only spare his life. Later, after receiving what he felt was Divine guidance, Hutchinson enlisted and became a Grenadier Guardsman, rising to the rank of sergeant. When evangelists Dwight Moody and Ira Sankey held services in London, young Hutchinson was greatly blessed as he witnessed scenes of revival. In mid 1888, while listening to the celebrated preacher, Charles H. Spurgeon, in the London Metropolitan Tabernacle, he heard the Holy Spirit speaking to him when the preacher said” “Awake, thou that sleepest – you! Sitting behind that pillar” (as Hutchinson actually was). This was a great moment of awakening in Hutchinson’s life and he was fully determined to confess Christ before his fellow soldiers. This he did kneeling in prayer at his bedside in the barracks at Aldershot. That very night his outright testimony was such that not a few soldiers were ultimately converted to Christ. In December that year he married Miss Ada Cooper. Theirs was to be a strong and loving union for forty years.
“In March 1900 Hutchinson was sent to South Africa to fight in the Boer War where he was twice preserved from death. When his health broke down he was invalided home to spend a period in the Netley Military Hospital, returning to civilian life in 1903. He was then employed as an inspector for the London Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, under the direction of Benjamin Waugh. During evenings and weekends he continued his evangelistic ministry, which bore much fruit, as a Methodist lay preacher. It was at this time that he accepted that the Biblical authority to baptize was a command to immerse. He responded, was duly baptized in water and thereafter supported the Baptist Church.
“Reader Harris, QC, of the Pentecostal League, was conducting meetings in Bournemouth at the time and through his teaching Hutchinson entered into the experience known as a “clean heart” before God. He mistook this encounter with God for the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Later, he came to see that the baptism of the Spirit should be accompanied by “speaking with other tongues”. He declined an offer made by the local Baptist Church to be an assistant pastor with a weekly stipend, preferring to wait for the time when he would step out into the ministry and live by faith, believing that God would meet his financial needs by freewill offerings.
“In 1906 Hutchinson visited South Wales and was deeply stirred by the continuing revival scenes. He received a spiritual vision of three balls of fire, one above the other, increasing in size upwards over his head. The Holy Spirit spoke within him, saying that the first ball was about the gift of tongues. Hutchinson now began to seek God for a baptism of fire like the disciples received on the day of Pentecost.
“In 1908, responding to an invitation, he attended the first international Pentecostal convention called by Alexander Boddy at Whitsuntide in Sunderland. During one of these services, while kneeling before the Lord, Hutchinson was baptized in the Holy Spirit, speaking in tongues as the Spirit gave him utterance. Some ten years later Kent White gave more detail to this event. He states that Hutchinson was “pleading the Blood” for over two hours. Then, after hands were laid on him, he received the remarkable Baptism of the Spirit. Returning to Bournemouth, Hutchinson held a prayer meeting at his home where like-minded believers began seeking God. The first person he laid his hands on received the baptism of the Spirit and spoke in tongues. Several others had a similar experience.
“Hutchinson now sensed that God was at work in a special way and that he could no longer fully serve Him in the Baptist Church. He accepted the challenge to step out and commenced to conduct public meetings, preaching the Pentecostal message. Signs began to follow his ministry with many brought to Christ, baptized in water and in the Holy Spirit. Others received miraculous healings. Hutchinson’s faith increased and in his heart was born a desire for a building where the work of God could be consolidated and a centre established from which the ministry could extend to other places.”

W. O. Hutchinson was a strong believer in the Covenantal promises given to ancient Israel as being fulfilled in the Anglo-Saxon people of today. In the June 1922 issue of “What We Believe and Teach” he wrote the following statement::

“That God’s Kingdom coming on earth has to do with the revealing of His chosen people Israel and that the blessing of Ephraim (Gen. 48:19) rest upon the British Empire and its throne through whom all nations shall be blessed. That America carries Manasseh’s blessing.”

In his book, Worsfold gives the following account which reinforces the idea of the Anglo-Israel belief among the many members of the Apostolic Faith Church.

“At the fourteenth International Convention of the Apostolic Faith Church, Bournemouth, 1922, the newspapers reported that the following speakers were present: W.O. Hutchinson, Chief Overseer, J. Hutchinson-Dennis, Deputy, A. Murdoch, Chief Overseer (Scotland), W. P. Roberts and T. Bowen (Wales), James Brooke, Chief Overseer (South Africa and Rhodesia), George Dennis, Chief Overseer (East African Territory), J. Jack (Canada), J.G. Hutchinson, Assistant and J. Hume (Scotland) and W. Bovett, (England).

The reports went on to say:
‘The Union Jack hangs from the rostrum, national anthems such as “God Save the King’ and ‘God Bless the Prince of Wales’ were sung heartily. The Apostolic Faith Church claims the throne of Britain has a Divine setting and that the Empire is the company of nations with Ephraim which will, with America, secure the peace of the world. Pastor Hutchinson declared that King George was the King of Israel and that the Prince of Wales was the Prince in Israel...”

Worsfold gives the following statement of Hutchinson’s death and the eulogy which was given at his funeral service.

“ During the mid-1920's as a result of the strenuous life he maintained as leader of the Apostolic Faith Church, Hutchinson suffered a break-down in health. At the end of February 1928, at his residence, “Beulah”, Hutchinson passed on to his eternal reward. He was sixty-four years old. The funeral service on 2 March at the church was presided over by a colleague, J.A. Jones, a minister from Southall, London. A large congregation attended, deeply-felt tributes were given, and many floral gifts were telegraphed from all over Great Britain, and from as far away as South Africa. In his eulogy, Jones said that William Hutchinson “. . . was a member of the British Israel World Federation and was a confident believer that the Anglo-Saxon races were the inheritors of the promises given through the prophets in the Bible to God’s people, Israel, and some few years ago under the auspices of the above-named body addressed a large representative gathering in the Central Hall, Westminster, London.”

P. JAMES BROOKE

The life and ministry of Pastor James Brooke is another mighty witness to the Pentecostal experience and the restoration of the Apostolic gifts to the body of Christ in the twentieth century. Born in the early 1880's, he was converted to Christ at an early age and held fellowship with the Baptist church. In 1905 he and Edith Hopkins were married and shared fifty years together until his passing in 1960. James Brooke became an elder and lay-preacher with the Baptist Chapel in North East London and also served with the London City Mission. In 1910, he became the pastor of the Baptist Church, Cardigan Road, Bournemouth, England.

In his personal testimony contained in his book (c. 1943), “Light On the Baptism of the Holy Spirit”, he gave the following account. “Thirty-two years ago, while ministering at a Baptist Church in South of England, a yearning came into my soul for a closer walk with God. I longed for a fuller knowledge of His Word and a deeper experience of the power of God. Much prayer for this soul-hunger to be satisfied was made on my part to God our heavenly Father.

“During a vacation spent in London, I saw a notice of a meeting to be held. The subject of the address was to be “The Baptism of the Holy Spirit.” With a friend I attended this meeting, and after the address, in response to the invitation, we went forward and knelt at the penitent form, desiring to have the wonderful experience of being baptized with the Holy Spirit.

“I went out after the meeting closed, telling the Lord that on His Word I believed that I had received. But the yearning remained; yes, an hunger of soul that could not be told was still mine. It seemed as though my soul would be torn asunder in the battle that raged within me.

“After three weeks of battling in the heavenlies, that is, in the spiritual realm, I realized there was a breaking down of the powers of darkness that hindered my receiving the Pentecostal blessing. . .One day, after having spent two hours in prayer, I said to a friend who was praying with me, “I cannot pray any longer, there is no more strength in me.” “Just five minutes more,” he replied.

“Those ‘five minutes more’ lengthened out into over two hours. But it was in the first five minutes of that time that the Holy Spirit came flooding into my soul with glory, and speaking through me in ‘other tongues’ as the Spirit gave utterance. Such praise in song, both in the language of the ‘new tongue’ and in mine own, broke forth from my lips, and in such beauty and power that I had never had nor thought could have been possible for me to utter.”

Within a few weeks his wife had received the same glorious experience. Before long Pastor Brooke’s ministry in the Baptist Church was terminated. He then moved his family to Swansea, South Wales in 1911 where he became the pastor of Bellvue Chapel. In Mrs. Brooke’s account of their year or so stay there she said, “Tremendous days, I’ve never seen the like of it. Every meeting was like a convention meeting. Crowds packed the church, and miracles and healings were taking place all the time.”

One day while praying in his study, the Lord spoke to him and said, “Prepare thyself for distant shores.” In February 1912, Pastor Brooke and his family set sail for South Africa where they labored for ten years in pastoral and missionary work. After returning to England in 1922, he built a church in the coastal town of Westcliff-On-Sea, Essex in obedience to the voice of the Lord. Up to this time, he had been one of the senior ministers of the Apostolic Faith Church. At this point Pastor Brooke with other ministers founded the United Apostolic Faith Church with headquarters in London. They would serve churches and missionary works in the United Kingdom, Canada, South Africa and elsewhere. Not long before his passing, he resigned as pastor of the local assembly at Tower Hall and Gospel Centre in London. He retained his responsibilities as General
Overseer of the U.A.F.C. and editor of the Pentecostal Times
monthly publication.

In his many years as General Overseer of the U.A.F.C. he travelled to South Africa to help establish churches and strengthen gospel mission centers. In 1946 and 1948, he went to Canada to help establish a church in the Toronto area. During his fifty years of ministry he wrote at least four small books, “Light on the Baptism of the Holy Spirit,” Light on Speaking in Other Tongues,” The Prophetical Voice” and “Israel in the Last Days.” In his description of the latter named book he wrote, “Great Britain and the U.S.A. identified as modern Israel. A much-discussed subject. The author describes how he came to a knowledge of this truth.”

He held to the Anglo-Israel point of view for the vast majority of his ministerial years. After his passing, his elder son Percy became the editor of the Pentecostal Times publication. In the Sept/Oct 1986 edition, Editor Percy J. Brooke re-affirmed the Anglo-Israel belief of the U.A.F.C. following Holiness preacher Maynard G. James’ article “Are the Jews all Israel?” James was a staunch believer in this prophetic point of view as recorded in his biography, “A Man on Fire” by his son Paul James.




H.A. MAXWELL WHYTE
When recounting the rich history of the Canadian branch of the United Apostolic Faith Church, the life and ministry of Maxwell Whyte is most prominent. He was associated with the U.A.F.C. for many years of his ministry. In May 1978, he resigned from a 31 year pastorate of the church located at Scarborough, Ontario. He was succeeded by his son, Stephen Whyte. While pastoring in Scarborough, a suburb of Toronto, he fellowshipped various Pentecostal brethren, who also attended his resignation celebration. It was held on the premises of the Christian Full Gospel television program, 100 Huntley Street.

After retiring from the Scarborough Assembly, Pastor and Mrs. Whyte went on an evangelistic tour of Southern Africa. He was greatly used of the Lord in the ministry of divine healing and deliverance from demonic oppression. While at Bethel Bible College in Johannesburg, the Lord confirmed His Word when a five year old girl took off her leg brace and ran to her astonished mother. The local pastor’s wife who was suffering from severe back complications was healed and was able to remove her brace. Maxwell Whyte ministered in Pretoria, Verceniging, Boksburg, Durban and other cities including Cape Town where many were saved, baptized in the Holy Spirit and divinely healed. One outstanding meeting was held in the Assemblies of God Church in Pietermaritzburg in cooperation with other pastors where much was accomplished for the Lord’s work in this united effort.

In his life and ministry Maxwell Whyte was a strong believer in the power of the blood of Jesus as the Christian’s authority over all the power of the enemy. He wrote several books on the blood of Jesus and deliverance from demonic power which are still available through Whitaker House Publishers. They include Demons and Deliverance, The Kiss of Satan, Dominion Over Demons, A Manual of Exorcism and The Power of the Blood.

Maxwell Whyte also wrote a book entitled, “Spiritual Aspects of the Kingdom of God,” in which he clearly sets forth his commitment to the
truth of the Anglo-Israel message of Scripture. The following quote is
from the first chapter entitled, The Bride of the Lamb.

“It is the purpose of this article to SHOW FROM THE SCRIPTURES and the real identity of the Bride of Christ, for if we take the Word of God to mean exactly what it says - - and we do not spiritualize its obvious meaning, especially in its historical setting- -surely we shall arrive at the truth.

In the 19th chapter of Exodus, we have recorded the marriage of Jehovah to His bride, the Israel peoples whom He created to be His
help-meet on earth, even as He had created a help-meet for Adam by taking one of his ribs from which He created Eve. From out of mankind, God took Abraham and from him He formed the nation of Israel - - HIS WIFE.

It is not our purpose now to study the sorry behavior of this FAITHLESS wife. But we do know that this Kingdom of God became split into the northern and southern houses of Israel, each with its own king. Sometimes, they even engaged in fratricidal wars, and in spite of the warnings of the prophets, they went further and further away into spiritual adultery until Jehovah was forced to cast them off and write them A BILL OF DIVORCE (Isaiah 50:1). From 741 to 580 B.C. the northern house was taken captive into Assyria and the southern house into Babylon.

Many assume that because God cast off His people so utterly, that this was the end of the story, and that the RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE LORD AND HIS WIFE WAS FINISHED. We feel sure that the following Scriptures will show how false is this assumption.

The first ten verses, of the 54th chapter of Isaiah deal with the restoration of God’s people. They are especially addressed to northern Israel, who at the time of this prophecy were in dispersion (712 B.C.), while Judah was still in Palestine.

Thus, in verse 1, we read that northern Israel is counselled to sing because of her promised restoration, FOR MORE ARE THE CHILDREN OF THE DESOLATE (northern Israel) THAN THE
CHILDREN OF THE MARRIED WIFE. (Judah still not cast off.)
She was to be encouraged to enlarge her tents or dwelling places, so that her seed might inherit the Gentiles. She was to fear, because the shame of her youth and the reproach of her widowhood would be forgotten.

Northern Israel fulfilled this by becoming the nation and
company of nations (Great Britain and Dominions) and a great people (U.S.A.) as promised to Jacob (Genesis 35:11 and 48:19). Jehovah reassured her by saying, “For thy maker is thy Husband, the Lord of hosts is His Name, and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel; the God of the whole earth shall He be called “(Verse 5).Now, in Luke 1:68, we read that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of Israel, and, in Isaiah 53:8, the prophet foretold that Jesus died for the transgressions of HIS PEOPLE ISRAEL. So, we see Jehovah, THE HUSBAND OF ISRAEL, is none other than Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of Israel!”

The Ministry of Maxwell Whyte was not limited to his church in Scarborough, but extended to various churches throughout North America. As a guest, he ministered at the Lake Hamilton Bible Camp in Arkansas, directed by Pastor Glen Miller. Pastor Miller was affiliated with the Full Gospel Business Men’s Fellowship International from its inception and was a personal friend with its founder, Demos Shakarian. Pastor Miller is also a believer in the Anglo-Israel truth. His testimony is found in a recent Campground publication, “Voices From His Excellent Glory.” In the article “That’s Truth! That’s Truth! That’s Truth! He tells how the Anglo-Israel truth was divinely revealed to him by the voice of God while standing in Westminster Abbey in London. In this article, which is subtitled, “The So-Called Lost Ten Tribes of Israel-Thirteen”, he gives the account of this supernatural revelation. He writes:

“I have always from my youth, heard about the ten (10) lost tribes and I have heard some say that they are the gypsies.

“However, an unusual happening in Westminster Abbey in London, England, when I was with the Full Gospel Business Men’s airlift of some 750 men, that has since launched me to study the facts. In
November of 1965, while a tour guide was telling us the history of
of the coronation chair and the stone under it which is Jacob’s pillar or the stone of Scone, GOD spoke to me audibly. He said, “THAT’S TRUTH - THAT’S TRUTH - THAT’S TRUTH’, three times over my left shoulder, in a very loud voice, which no one else seemed to hear. It felt like all the hair on my body was standing on end.

“This caused me to ponder, and begin studying what, “THAT’S TRUTH” is.”


EDWARD OASTLER STEWARD

“Four Outstanding Evangelical Christian Leaders of the 20th Century” by Robert A. Balaicius

Edward Oastler Steward was born in Soham, a small rural town of Cambridgeshire, England in 1903 to Jane Oastler and Thomas William Steward. He was raised with his five sisters and three brothers (he was born sixth) in the village of Exning (near Newmarket, West Suffolk). Later in 1915 the family relocated to Swaythling, Southampton, where they continued in the Protestant faith, but as Plymouth Brethren.

At the age of 18, he began evangelical preaching. In 1926 at the age of 23 he joined the Elim Foursquare Gospel Church, which grew out of Principal George Jeffrey’s Revival Campaign in Southampton. From then Steward took numerous preaching engagements and then married in 1928. In 1929 and 1930 he studied and graduated from Elim Bible College in London and was ordained a minister and for the next 20 years was a minister of various churches and saw numerous souls converted and many people miraculously healed.

In 1940, after deep research, personal study and soul-searching, he became firmly convinced of the Christian-Israel message. During the war he served as an Honorary Chaplain, Captain of a Fire-fighting Unit, and Shelter Warden. He also served on the board of Governors of the Paletine Schools (Blackpool) for two years.

In 1945 he was the founder-member with George Jeffreys (and others) of the Bible Pattern Church Fellowship; he was appointed a member of the
first Advisory Council and for several years he was a member of the Coordinating Council. In 1946 he held evangelistic meetings in churches in France, which experienced many conversions and healings (especially in Nice). He also arranged and participated in George Jeffrey’s Revival Campaign in Nice. In 1947 he attended the first World Conference of Pentecostal Churches in Zurich, Switzerland. In 1948 he spent seven weeks in Stockholm, Sweden and preached at many churches, preaching to over 3,000 people at the Filadelphia Church alone.

In 1950 he became a full-time lecturer for the British-Israel World Federation. He traveled over 300,000 miles delivering over 2,800 messages throughout Great Britain, Ireland, and the Channel Islands before retiring in 1969.

The foregoing testimonies of these Pentecostal Spirit filled men of God are further evidence of the widespread belief and acceptance of the Anglo-Israel message. By the simple fact that a pastor, evangelist or minister believed a certain truth and was widely accepted, clearly indicates that multiplied hundreds or thousands of laymen also believed that same truth in their areas of fellowship.

* * * * * * * * * *
THE WORDS OF OUR LORD

The first recorded sermons ever preached by John the Baptist and Jesus were exactly the same. “Repent, for the Kingdom of heaven is at hand.” Matt. 3:1; 4:17. All the parables spoken by our Lord in Matthew 13 are concerning the restoration of the mighty Kingdom of Israel that had once existed in Old Testament times. This Kingdom had consisted of a people that were the physical descendants of the family of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob/Israel.

During the times of the dispersions and captivities as recorded in the Old Testament, this family/kingdom was scattered, ruined and ‘lost’! The New Testament word ‘lost’ as used by our Lord in Matthew 10:6; 15:24; 18:11 does not mean ‘no longer in existence’ or ‘impossible to be found,’ but ‘put away in punishment until the time of restoration.’ Jesus stated that His mission was to go to the ‘lost sheep of the house of Israel.’ This statement gave purpose and direction for the earthly ministry of our Lord and the continuing ministry of His disciples.

After following the Lord for over three years and hearing Him teach, His disciples knew well what He taught concerning the restoration of the Kingdom. One burning question which must be answered before their Master departed from them was: “Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the Kingdom to Israel?” Acts 1:6. The disciples knew that this was one of the reasons for Israel’s Husband/Redeemer coming to Zion. Even the Apostle James referred to this restoration in Acts 15:16 when he said, “After this I will return, and will build again the tabernacle of David which is fallen down; and I will build again the ruins thereof, and I will set it up:”

This restoration was and is to take place through the coming and work of the Holy Spirit. For the last one hundred years the Holy Spirit through many chosen vessels has identified the true family of Jacob/Israel and proclaimed the national message of the Kingdom, yet God’s people have refused to hear. They have even despised the messengers.

It is time for the ‘seventh angel company’ to proclaim; “The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of His Christ; and He shall reign for ever and ever” Rev. 11:15. Jesus is coming again to sit upon “the throne of His father David: and to reign over the house of Jacob forever; and of His kingdom there shall be no end” Luke 1:32-33.
By Pastor Charles A. Jennings

The Bible Educator Ministry
“Where the Word of God is not Bound”

TRUTH IN HISTORY MINISTRIES
P.O. BOX 808
OWASSO, OKLAHOMA 74055-0808
Web site: www.truthinhistory.org
April 2007 Tract # 68